This is not simply an AIdriven rally.
It's a broad rally.
>> What we are seeing is the AI [music]
momentum continues to move forward.
>> Were it not for AI, this would be a very
very different story.
>> You asked me to pick a side right now, I
would not own equities.
>> Just cuz you're not at 2000 bubble
territory doesn't mean you're not in a
bubble. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Wednesday, looking to snap a
three-day losing run. Equity markets
bouncing back heading into Nvidia's
quarterly earnings report as Goldman is
gearing up to take on a leading role in
the [music] biggest IPO of the year. One
bank CEO is looking to reassure staff
following some very clumsy comments on
AI related layoffs.
>> Here would be my advice. Know your
audience before you go speak to them.
Whether they're students, whether you're
employees, whether you're giving a
speech, the Standard Charter CEO is
saying that his remarks were taken out
of context. But if you listen to what he
said, which we played yesterday, they
weren't taken out of context. That is
what he equated to in [music] terms of
AI. He is talking about in some cases
lower value human capital [music] will
need to be replaced.
>> Yeah. And with you the context wasn't
lost here. It wasn't lost at all. In
fact, he's not the only one that is
struggling to really communicate what
they're trying to achieve with AI. We've
talked about this repeatedly since the
start of the week. The push back over
the weekend to some of the commencement
speeches across colleges across this
nation. Every time AI was mentioned,
there is a real branding PR marketing
problem around this push.
>> Unbelievable. The second AI was brought
up at a number of commencement speeches.
I know Eric Schmidt, the former Google
CEO, got a lot of attention, but
Jonathan, there was a number of them.
One individual brought up AI and said,
"I know you guys don't like it. Booze,
booze, booze. Deal with it." That's what
he said to this graduating class that
they're seeing the future and saying,
"Where do I have a place in all of
this?"
>> We're going to spend some time on this
later in the program. We'll also spend
some time on this. Check out the bond
market. Two, 10, 30s. Yields coming in
just a touch. That's a relief given the
sell off [music] we've seen in the last
24 hours and the past few weeks on a
10ear since last Monday higher by some
25 basis points this morning [music]
down three basis points on 30s the
highest close we've seen on a 30-year
yield going back to 2007 [music] this
morning down a single basis point it's
difficult to put a lid on this because
there are a lot of forces building
outside of the United States
>> absolutely a lot of forces this is a
global issue and of course a lot of this
is being driven by inflation
expectations and what is [music]
happening in the oil market. And the
fact of the matter is to this day we
still do not have an agreement when it
comes to Iran. [music] The president
spoke about it yesterday and he talked
about the fact that basically he's going
to give Iran two or three days, maybe
Friday, Saturday, Sunday, something
[music] maybe early next week. A limited
period of time to get to an agreement.
I'm reading his quote here. Or there's
going to potentially be a resumption of
strikes. the headline event a little bit
later after the closing bal of course
full coverage today of [music] what's
going to happen with Nvidia this morning
in the pre-market higher by 1.8% 8%.
It's had a great run off the lows from
the end of March, up by more than 30%.
But this has not been the blockbuster
story of the last few months in the chip
space. That's been Intel, that's been
AMD. The gains, triple [music] the game
we've seen on Nvidia since the March
low.
>> There has been other names that have
just done a amazing job. Intel, you have
to think how much money is the US
government actually [music] making right
now based off their 10% stake. When it
comes to Nvidia though, I think for
this, and you lead a lot of the analyst
research on this, [music] it's either
going to be a green light for the entire
market to maybe rip and the AI trade to
continue or it's going to be a red light
for those individuals that [music] said
maybe we're just too overexposed, this
trade is just overdone and maybe
potentially that's going to be a huge
[music] market signal to the downside.
>> That stock is up in the pre-market
futures doing better this morning, high
by 0.4% on the S&P 500 following the
3-day losing run over that period. down
about two percentage points on the S&P.
[music]
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Keith Lerner of Truist as elevated
yields weigh on equities, Katherine
Thompson of the Ko Institute as
President Trump threatens a big hit on
Iran, and Angela Zeno of CF with Nvidia
earnings on deck. We begin this out with
stocks finding a firmer footing
following a three-day losing streak.
Keith Lerner of Truist writing, "Rising
oil prices and interest rates may
finally be starting to stick to what has
otherwise been a teflon market." Keith
joins us now for more. Keith, welcome
back to the show. It's good to see you,
buddy. This market run has been really
quite powerful. The rally has been big
off the March low. Just walk us through
why you think this bull market is still
intact.
>> Yeah, we certainly think the bull market
still deserves the uh benefit of the
doubt. That's been our mantra for the
last few years. But uh you know, early
in this month, we talked about this
Teflon market. Nothing was bringing it
down. We highlighted these uh these
risks that we all know about oil prices
and interest rates, which are obviously
related, and they have moved up. you
know, underneath the surface, we've
actually seen them bite. Um, you know,
look at retail. Uh, the equated um um
discretionary sector is down about 10%
from its highs. Um, retail sector is
down about 10% of the highs. Um, the
lowest relative performance since the
global financial crisis. So, we are
seeing things bite, but at the headline
index level, it's still about AI and um,
you know, obviously we're all waiting
for the print today. I when you think
about why markets have actually been
somewhat more resilient relative to
these headlines you know AI is a common
theme for large caps for small caps for
emerging markets as well and we think
that theme is intact but also probably
likely due for a little bit of a rust
here. Well, Keith, let's build on that.
The chip sector makes up about 18% of
the S&P 500. We've seen a massive rally
off the March low. Even with the recent
correction in names like Intel, in names
like AMD after the close, we hear from
Nvidia high in the pre-market. Had a
nice rally itself, but nothing like the
gain we've seen elsewhere. Keith, when
you look at that sector at the moment,
when I speak to the technical
strategists, they say this is stretched.
It's overdone. Jonathan Kinsky of BTIG
is pointing out he thinks you'll get the
equal and opposite correction, which
means a lot of downside from here for
the chip players. What's the more
fundamental argument for these names?
>> Yeah, I'm cursed by looking at the
markets from both a technical and a
fundamental perspective, and they're
showing somewhat of divergence between
the two because on a three-year rolling
basis, the uh the uh semiconductors are
have had the strongest performance since
the bubble period. The main difference
from the fundamental side is you know
overall valuations for the uh the
semiconductors is around the 25 multiple
about half of what it was in 2000. And
then we looked at forward earning
estimates since last October. If you
recall October was where the market or
at least the tech sector had peaked
before this recent run. So the um we've
seen this big rise in semiconductors up
over 50 60% but the forward earning
estimates are up 90%. So, it's one of
those things where I think I if I put
that together, I do think on a
short-term basis, this area is stretched
due for a rest, but then the line
fundamentals are still there. And I
think longer term, if we look at over
the next say 12 to 24 months, I still
think there's upside, but I actually
think there there will be more of a
consolidation. And then lastly, John,
just you know, not that I'm a stock
picker per se, but you look at Nvidia
tra trading at a multiple in the low 20s
versus some of those other names that
you're talking about which are up 200%
and trading at much higher multiples. So
there's also divergence uh there as well
as we talk about the the industry.
>> Keith, one sector that is potentially
going to benefit the most from AI is
industrials and you recently downgraded
them. Why?
>> Yeah, we downgraded them last week to to
neutral. Uh so that's more of of a
market weight and there's a couple
different factors. I mean one uh going
back to the fundamental side uh the
valuations for a brief period of time uh
went to about a 25 PE that was higher
than actually the tech sector but the
difference is the overall earnings
momentum is somewhat weaker for the
sector uh the tech earning m momentum is
much stronger and then the relative
valuations uh became the the the uh the
highest level that we've seen in uh in
more than a decade so we just sort of
expectations uh moved up quite a bit and
it's also a pretty disparit industry
it's not a pure play I You have defense
on one side, you have um you know more
the industrial players on the other
side, but over overall so again more
neutral. We still longer term we've kept
our long-standing overweight to tech or
overweight communications or overweight
energy. Those three sectors the
commonality is they have the strongest
upward earnings revisions in the entire
market.
>> Keith, how are you thinking about this
market right now given the fact that the
straight of hormos is still closed where
eight minutes into the start of the show
we barely talked about this conflict
that exists which is one of the biggest
choke holds in the world.
>> Yeah, it's it's pretty amazing. as as as
you all and I've spoken to experts in
the field. I mean, I think if you would
have told them that it was still closed
by now and where oil prices would be, we
would expect oil prices to be a lot
higher. But I I you know, overall I
think it goes back to um you know this
AI theme uh you know because I again the
higher energy prices is biting. I
mentioned the consumer discretionary a
equated sector down 10% and the
underperformance there. But if you look
at the S&P 500 as we all know you know
it's it's 50% tech and tech adjacent.
Look at small cap uh the small cap
indices. A lot of people are saying hey
why are small caps holding up you know
relatively well in this environment
where more geopolitical uncertainty
higher rates which is not great for debt
but small cap tech up until recently was
up over 40% for the year trouncing large
cap tech as well. So I think all in all
it's still definitely a concern. It also
suggests we kind of consolidate. One
thing I want to just point out when we
looked at, you know, these big surges in
markets over a 30-day period like we've
had for the S&P up until recently where
you were up more than 15%. Um, after
that, the forward returns over the next
month, three months kind of mixed, but
as you look over the next 12 months, the
markets has been have been up 14 or out
of 15 times with double digit gains. So,
what does that tell us? That just tells
us underlying momentum is a good longer
term sign, but again, maybe more due for
a rest after such a big run off the
lows. So Keith, let's talk about the
bond market challenge just briefly.
You've alluded to this. You're not
alone. Clearly the equity market has the
the warm comfort blanket of very
powerful earnings. I just wonder how
insulated it is from this. If we can
bring up the bond board and just look at
twos, tens and 30s. There has been a
reset higher in yields with twos at 4%,
10's at around 460, 30s around 5%.
Keith, how insulated is the equity
market from this?
>> Yeah, I think this is where we have to
also think about, you know, which equity
markets are we talking about? Because I
mean we have like I said it's seeing
some damage on the consumer side.
Material stocks are down 6 to 7%. Indust
industrials down about 4%. You're seeing
international developed markets
underperform uh you know quite a bit as
well. So you are getting hit and the
more this goes up I obviously you know
the more potential pain. But then the
question I think about, you know, this
dominant AI theme, let's say, um, you
know, especially as these companies
raise more debt, you know, how much of a
of a difference is it going to make for
the AI theme if, you know, if yields
move up 50 basis points, you know, are
we going to see a a slowdown in
spending? Probably not. So, I I still
think ultimately for the headline
indices, it comes down to AI and tech. I
think the higher yields definitely maybe
compress the overall valuations for the
market. Uh, but it's it's it's not a
showstopper. But I just think it it's
another reason why to expect more of a
churn uh here near term after this kind
of V-shaped recovery.
>> Hey Keith, it's good to see you as
always. Thanks for catching up with us.
Ke of Truist. Keith Lenner of Truist on
this equity market. Let's talk about
this bond market. So inflation very much
in the driving seat at the moment off
the back of what's happened in the
Middle East. In the UK downside surprise
on CPI enough to unlock this move at the
front end of the UK curve. Two-year
guilds this morning yields lower by 10
basis points. across the curve, you've
seen yields come in, the action, the
fireworks further out along the curve,
particularly on the 30-year maturity,
and you see that worldwide. I'll go
through some of the numbers for you. In
the US, the 30-year yield, the highest
level since 2007. This week, in Germany,
the highest level since 2011. In the UK,
very close to the highest level since
1998. And in Japan, the highest level on
record.
>> It's basically the entire world
realizing that there's potentially going
to be fiscal pain down the road. They're
going to have to spend a lot more money
when it comes to these governments. It's
a very interesting moment because this
week we're going to get a brand new Fed
chair and he is going to have to contend
with that bond board.
>> Sworn in this coming Friday. Looking
forward to it. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. President Donald
Trump threatening Iran with a quote big
hit if a deal is not reached soon.
Trump's comments coming just a day after
he claimed to call off [music] another
attack. Vice President JD Vance striking
a more positive tone as well, saying
progress is being made towards a deal.
Those falling pre-market, the home
improvement retailer reporting first
quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates. Its fiscal year operating
margin though fell short. Low CEO Marvin
Ellison saying the company remains
focused on a total home strategy in
spite of a challenging housing macro
environment.
Global chip supply may be at risk after
talks between Samsung and its largest
labor union collapsed. Workers at the
world's biggest memory chip maker are
planning a work stoppage [music]
tomorrow. The Cosby fell on reports of
the strike. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonyie later on this
hour. Up next on the program, tear up.
Another big hit on Iran.
>> They come to the table. They're begging
to make a deal. I hope we don't have to
do the war, but we may have to give them
another big hit. Up next, we'll catch up
with Katherine Thompson of the Kato
Institute, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. [music]
Coming up in the next few [music] hours,
some earnings. These earnings target
6:30 Eastern time. Later on, TJX at
7:30. A read on retail in America. And
after the closing bow, Nvidia after the
bow, the headline act a little bit later
on this afternoon. Into that, your
scores look like this. 3-day losing
streak on the S&P over that period down
by about 2% on the benchmark. On the S&P
this morning, futures bouncing back by
0.4%
on the NASDAQ up by.7. Helped out no
doubt by the fact that Nvidia is
positive in the pre-market. [music]
Bit of a change in fixed income. Some
nerves yesterday settling down just a
little bit. Two-year yields down by
three basis points. 10's down by three
also. 46393.
And your 30-year [music] coming off the
back of the biggest close we've seen,
the highest close we've seen on a
30-year yield going [music] back to
2007. Yields down by a single basis
point 51648.
That's the bond market pitch. Let's turn
to commodities. Crude Brent down by some
2%. [music] Brent 109 and WTI at around
102. under surveillance this morning te
up another big hit on Iran.
>> So they called up, they had heard I made
the decision. They said, "Sir, could you
give us a couple of more days? I'm
saying two or three days, maybe Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, something, maybe early
next week. I hope we don't have to do
the war, but we may have to give them
another big hit." So here's the latest
this morning. President Donald Trump
warning of fresh strikes on Iran in the
coming days as the White House pushes
Thran to return to the negotiating
table. Joining us from Washington,
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Hey Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump says that he will only wait a
quote limited amount of time for Iran to
come to the negotiating table. As you
heard, he outlined that could be two to
three days or early next week. In his
words, amid reporting that the president
has been advised that potentially
limited amount of strikes could help
pressure Iran to reach a deal. Because
at this point, the White House is
maintaining that Iranian counterp
proposals have been insufficient, mainly
over a lack of discussion over curbs on
the country's nuclear program. Though we
know other big differences remain,
including how Iran insists on full
financial relief, payments for war
damages, and that it has a role in
controlling the Strait of Hermuz going
forward. At this point, the White House
is making clear that the threat of
escalation is firmly on the table. But
it's also probably worth mentioning that
we heard from Iranian officials earlier
this week who vowed to retaliate if the
country is ultimately attacked again. At
the moment, the White House is keeping
up the economic pressure. Instead,
yesterday, the Wall Street Journal
reported that the US had seized another
Iranian linked sanctioned oil tanker as
it ramps up its efforts to crack down on
the Iranian shadow fleet. John Bloomberg
News reported yesterday, according to
people familiar with the matter that as
the straight of Hermuz remains closed in
the economic impacts compound, NATO is
now looking at a potential mission to
help secure the waterway if it isn't
reopened by July. We should say while
several states have now indicated that
they could be in favor of such mission,
doesn't have that unanimous support
needed quite yet in order to deploy
assets.
>> So it sounds like potentially NATO is
going to come to the rescue in a sense.
The president has been putting a lot of
pressure on allies for months. Tyler,
how soon potentially get some sort of
concession from NATO or consensus from
all the members to actually go to the
trader of especially help the US open it
up?
>> Well, Amory, our reporting does indicate
that July would be the deadline for
these NATO member states to make some
sort of uh decision on whether or not
they will deploy assets to the
Straighter Formuz. As you well know,
that does align with the annual NATO
summit that is happening uh in Turkey
this year. So perhaps that will be where
we get a little bit more movement. This
of course is a significant development
since so far member states have been
weary at best when it comes to President
Trump's demands to uh help him secure uh
the straight of her moves. In fact, that
has led to his threats that he could
leave the alliance. Of course, easier
said than done. We know that that would
take congressional approval, which at
this point doesn't seem very likely, but
it does highlight how the economic
impacts have been compounding for uh
these member states as uh they look to
get more oil to the market. It's going
to be something to watch because at the
end of the day, we know that the White
House has maintained that it doesn't
need help with securing the straight,
but we know that it is something that
they would like to see.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in the
nation's capital. Tyler, thank you. More
from Tyler in the next hour. Now to
build on this conversation, Katherine
Thompson of the Kato Institute writing,
"The US is teetering on a knife's edge
of not only resumption of host
hostilities with Iran, but long-term
entanglement in both this conflict and
the region." Katherine joins us now for
more. Katherine, welcome to the program.
Are we running out of options to
maintain the status quo?
>> You know, I think we are. I think we're
reaching that point. I don't think we're
any closer to a deal um than when the
president was speaking about a week ago.
Um and and I think that you know in that
time particularly the foreign powers
that are involved in this conversation
um you know on our side of of these
bilateral engagements. The UAE in
particular has taken a more emboldened
stance. This puts more uh foreign
interests on our side of the table where
Iran is just contending with largely
itself. And I think that this sets up a
really dangerous dynamic going into
conversations on a deal that now has a
deadline of of two to three days. Well,
Katherine, when it comes to this deal, I
mean, the Wall Street Journal is
reporting what basically we all know
that Iran's position on negotiations
hasn't changed at all as much as the
vice president and the president said
they want to make a deal. If their
positions haven't changed, is the United
States willing to give up some major
concessions at the negotiating table, or
do you think the president will actually
take the strikes?
I mean, I tend to think that given what
we've seen from the president so far
that the the strikes are very very much
the the option that's that he's going to
view as as as the uh best lover of
pressure. The problem as as was pointed
out in the the previous segment is the
threat of Iranian retaliation. We know
that that's the ca of course we know
that you know the Iranians would plan to
retaliate if they're if they're attacked
again. But the problem that this poses
for the United States, who's in the
midst of a munitions crisis, is that
Iranian retaliation would likely come on
US bases and personnel throughout the
rest of the region. That's going to
require more of our most exquisite and
and expensive air defense air defense
platforms to to to support uh a defense
of of our own personnel should that
retaliation come. Um, and that's
something that we can't afford to to
treat lightly on our side as a strategic
consideration.
>> That's the retaliation. But what do you
think the president will target if he's
going to resume attacks?
>> That's hard to say, right? I mean,
limited strikes, especially as as was
sort of outlined um in the previous
segment, could mean a lot of things. I
mean, I don't know if that includes more
energy infrastructure. I mean, I don't
think it would include um you know,
leadership again or anything like that
that we saw towards the beginning of the
war. Um but so it's hard to tell like
what could be considered limited to sort
of get the Iranians to the table that
wouldn't you know trigger again
large-scale retaliation that that that
hurts our bases and our personnel in the
region.
>> There seems to be two different
negotiations going on and Jonathan spoke
about this earlier this week. There's a
negotiations to open up the straight of
her then there's a real nuclear
negotiation. When it comes to opening up
the straight of her moose do you think
the Trump administration has now
convinced allies to come help?
You know, I think that this is a tricky
one as you guys pointed out in the in
the segment prior, right? NATO requires
consensus um to to come to the table um
and to to to provide any support for out
of area operations. The other you know
sticky point of this situation for the
Trump administration is that basically
the Trump administration spent the first
year in office um you know berating the
Europeans about doing out of area
operations. They want focus on convent
the Europeans focused on conventional
defense and deterrence of the continent
which is absolutely something that that
that is needed to keep you know NATO
sustainable for the future but that's in
direct conflict with this ask of of now
NATO putting together an out of area
operation out of area mission to go
support the US efforts in Iran. Um
that's going to be a really really heavy
lift for consensus and I think that we
are I think we're quite far from it. I
know we've got some time until the the
anchor summit. Um but but I think we're
going to have a really hard time
convincing some of those hold out NATO
countries um to come to our aid because
politically it's very very toxic for
them.
>> Katherine, it's good to see you. Thanks
for the input. Katherine Thompson there
at the KO Institute. If it goes on that
long and we're talking about the back
end, the very back end of this year.
NATO involvement is not a choice. It's
necessary and it's not about coming to
anyone's aid. It's about getting
something done that needs to be done.
>> It's about going almost to your own aid.
Um but the president has been pushing
them and then remember they immediately
reject it and he said well actually we
don't need your help. But the problem is
the United States would need help
potentially if they don't want to
undertake this alone. But to your point
it's hurting their economies more. It's
hurting the European economies and our
allies economies a lot more than at the
moment the higher oil prices impacting
the United States.
>> And there's always something to worry
about. The words of Steve author
federated yesterday on this program if
it can't happen it won't. Which is quite
an interesting mantra. If it's that bad
that it can't happen, then it won't.
>> Well, if that's the case, then
potentially what we could see is the
United States lift sanctions on Iranian
crude, which the Iranian press says was
part of the negotiating deal until they
get to the actual table, which the White
House is basically stomping down. Or we
could potentially see the United States
give concessions, maybe end the blockade
in order to try to get the straight of
her moose opened.
>> Everyone's trying to deal with this in
their own way. Did you see the headlines
coming out of the UK? Pushing some maybe
some of the grocery stores, the
supermarkets, the cap food prices.
That's the push right now in places like
the UK.
>> Well, the places like the UK are dealing
with incredibly difficult moment because
they're also dealing with a different
energy complex than we are dealing with
here in the United States. It's very
challenging there when you look at how
high petrol prices are.
>> Crude this morning, Brent down by about
2%. That's an improvement, but still
trading near 110 at 109. equity futures
this morning near session highs up by
0.4% heading into the big earnings
report later on this afternoon when we
hear from Nvidia. Before we get there
though, a couple of retail players in
the mix. Target and TJX worthy of
attention. We'll get Target in just a
moment. Full coverage of that and this
up next. We'll catch up with McI of
Oxford Economics as the AI backlash
builds over the [music] weekend and into
this week. Some very clumsy comments
coming from one particular bank and
we'll talk about that bank in just a
moment. from New York City this morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV
[music]
losing streak on the S&P 500. the
longest losing streak since the end of
March this morning. A bit of a bounce.
We're up by some third of 1%, up 4/10en
of 1% on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, up
by 0.7, down almost 2% over the last 3
days on the S&P. That follows an 18%
rally off the lows. Just a bit of
context there. The [music] rally has
been really, really powerful. The
correction, if we can even call it that,
has been very, very small over the last
3 days. In the bond market, some major
moves we need to talk about. new levels.
A 30-year closing at the highest level
since 2007. [music]
Yields down this morning by a basis
point of 51637.
Front end of the curve gets interesting
from a political perspective. We're down
about three basis points on twos. So the
yield is trading above the policy rate
over at the Federal Reserve and we've
talked about that repeatedly. Could this
Fed really hike [music] interest rates?
That's difficult to internalize at least
before year end and we can spend some
time on that. What's [music] interesting
about the political dimension going into
this swear and gin ceremony on Friday of
Kevin Walsh is just the president
backing off a little bit from putting
pressure from this institution to cut
interest rates.
>> Twice this week the president did that
interview at Fortune magazine. He
conceded that maybe that the Fed's going
to have to look at the figures after the
war is concluded. Basically [music]
giving a nod to the fact that he
understands that with higher energy
prices that's going to maybe mean higher
inflation. And then this to the
Washington examiner yesterday. Quote,
"I'm going to let him do what he wants
to do. He's a very talented guy. He's
going to be fine. He's going to do a
good job." That was what the president
said [music] when this reporter asked if
he thinks Kevin Walsh will deliver a
rate cut.
>> Let's see if he sticks to the script
this coming Friday at the White House
when those two are standing together.
Looking at energy this morning, we're
backing away. We're down by 2% on Brent
around 109. WTI around 102. [music]
On our radar this morning, results from
Nvidia due after the closing bow. The
much anticipated earnings set to signal
the state of the AI economy with
investors awaiting the company's
comments on ramping up chip production
and fending off competition. Elsewhere,
an important developing story. Samsung
workers are set to strike after talks
collapse with its largest union, putting
South Korea's economy and the global
tech supply chain at risk. The company
is the world's top memory chip maker and
drives a quarter of the nation's
exports. And finally, just dropping
across the Bloomberg target shares
rising in the pre-market up by 0.5%. The
retail giant's first quarter earnings
topping estimates delivering beats on
comparable sales and gross margin.
Targets forecast also coming in above
expectations calling for growth in net
sales in every quarter this year.
>> So they've been working on a turnaround
plan. It does seem to be that is
working. Remember Jonathan, they had
three years of weak sales. So this is
welcome news. I also wonder how much
when we hear from the executives and we
can get an understanding of how much is
this about Target's turnaround plan or
is it really also just a resilient US
consumer
>> the environment versus execution and I
would say for that name the problem for
them hasn't been the environment it's
been execution so you got to give them a
little bit of credit here and we talked
about this with regards to Walmart as
well Walmart's just executed so well as
a company now over a series of years
it's difficult to look at this and say
this is all about the backdrop the
environment the backdrop for the
consumer we've heard about how the
consumer feels about this economy me.
I'd give them a little bit of credit
here. Target up by 2% at the pre-market.
>> Yeah, they're working on this turnaround
plan. It actually is working. In the
first quarter, they say they saw visits
to stores were up 5%. Um, but of course,
it's a challenging environment. Then
when you look at where they are in terms
of the gap compared to the king, which
is Walmart
>> and that's the economy right here, right
now. Let's talk about the future US
economy. AI facing a massive week of
backlash
>> today. We stand on this edge of another
technological transformation. It will
touch every profession, every classroom,
every hospital. I know what many of you
are feeling about that. I can hear you.
There is a fear. [cheering]
University graduates booing commencement
speakers across the country when
discussing the technology. Now the
standard charted CEO walking back
comments after saying AI could replace
quote lower value human capital. The
Oxford economics CEO Inis McI pushing
back on the negative AI narrative
writing the speed of adoption is
critical and it's assumed to be orderly
enough for new jobs to be created to
absorb those lost. Inex joins us now for
more. Andis, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get into the push back, the
backlash we've got right now. What kind
of labor market do you think we need to
confront in the next several years?
Well, I think the near-term picture is
not one of, you know, mass unemployment
and and and rising um layoffs and things
that gets a lot of attention. But I
think it's also important to note that
if you look at, let's say, the
information sector, you're also seeing
higher um hiring rates as well. So, what
that tells me is there's a lot of churn
in the in the job market at the moment,
but not a big net loss of jobs. Um so
you know for a lot of people it's going
to be about what are the skills that are
needed um to navigate this labor market
over there.
>> What skills do you think will be needed
and do you think we face the same kind
of thing that we had to face with
globalization except this time it's
white collar workers and not blue color.
Well, I think when you look at AI
adoption at the moment, what is actually
being used out in the surveys, it is
things like drafting, it's things like,
you know, automating u relatively simple
tasks. And really, I think what will end
up happening is that there's more
emphasis on, you know, kind of the more
critical appraisal, the more insights,
those sorts of um factors. And that will
be what's really critical for people to
be able to demonstrate because AI will
be able to help with the sort of more
day-to-day tasks.
>> What about the political economy? This
is one area where I see the very far
right, the Steve Bannons, and the very
far lefts like Senator Bernie Sanders
actually agree on what these companies
should be doing because of the potential
job losses they're going to mean for the
economy.
>> Yeah. Well, I think, you know, look,
this there's no doubt this is a huge
structural change for the economy over
the next few years. We've not yet seen
um the big productivity gains, but we
are likely to see over the next couple
of years, I think, a bit of a shift in
that skills mix. Um and what we would
expect is that you end up with as you
lower the price of some of these tasks
actually demand goes up is what's called
achievven's paradox you know you start
to see more demand coming through but
the phasing of these things as ever with
economics we talk a lot about long and
variable lags and things like that well
actually in this context that's going to
be really important because you're
talking about you know potentially a
couple of years in the labor market
where we have to navigate those those
shifting plates so I think policy does
have to play a role there
>> that's political policy but if we're
seeing potentially shifting labor market
and it's going to be bumpy. If we have
higher unemployment because of AI, could
Federal Reserve rate cuts or any central
bank rate cuts actually solve that
problem?
>> Well, I don't think it can solve the
problem. As ever, monetary policy is
going to be one of those things that
actually just tries to help mitigate
some of the impacts, offset some of
them. But I don't think that's what
we're seeing at the moment. We're seeing
some churn. We eventually will see, you
know, AI adoption spread. we'll see the
types of tasks um uh that AI can help
with uh sort of move up a little bit the
value chain um and that will ultimately
you know maybe even mean a sort of
disinflationary
>> task do you think to help current
workers or task to eliminate current
workers
>> so I think it'll be very much labor
augmenting it'll help current workers I
think that's the sort of thing that over
time you'll see real wage gains because
productivity rises
>> you sound constructive
>> yeah you really do yeah do you get much
push back when you make this pitch Um
well it does get you know some people
agree with me and then others um
violently disagree with me. You know I
think that if you go back a couple of um
a couple of months we had this kind of
AI dystopia narrative really take hold
and this kind of idea that we would end
up with you know the labor share really
falling and that you know we're
ultimately going to see a fall in
demand. But the thing that I say is name
another technology where that has
happened. You know, we have not seen
historically a technology that has led
to kind of lower demand. We obviously
see resources moving around the economy
and that can be painful and there'll be
a role for policy within that.
>> This is a big picture question. What do
you think the industrial revolution
would have looked like in the age of
social media? What do you think that
[laughter] would have looked like? Can
you imagine what the push back would
have been like today?
>> Yeah. Well, I think that's the that's
one of the issues here, isn't it? That
you've got this narrative where, you
know, it's possible for really people to
focus in on just one lens of it. And I
think you know what we try to do is step
back and have a broader take on yeah
some areas of the economy are going to
face real disruption others are going to
are going to you know pick up and and
and move away.
>> Ultimately as you know though there's a
sequencing problem at least up front all
we see is the higher costs and the risks
of job loss associated with this
technology. What happens next? I don't
know you're constructive and I hope
you're right but in the near term we've
got a bit of an inflation problem
already. Does this big push contribute
to it? It does, but I think in ways that
probably people don't really understand.
People, a lot of people focus on the
investment side and think, okay, that's
pushing up demand. Remember, there's a
big import story that's associated with
that. The net impact on the economy in
aggregate terms is only a few ten from
the uh from the big investment boom.
where I think it is having an impact
particularly on the consumer basket is
that the the push towards higher memory
um higher value ad chips is actually
sort of crowding out particularly in an
environment where we're seeing some
supply constraints via the Middle East
situation. Um that's where we're
crowding out a little bit those
lower-end chips which are of course in
lots of consumer goods and we think
that's probably going to add at peak
something like 3/10en to core PCE uh
over the next couple of quarters. Where
have you got inflation peaking at what
number?
>> So we got 4% for for headline PC and
sticking around three for a while in the
core.
>> Can you cut with core around three? If
you're Kevin Walsh, can you make that
push?
>> Well, I think one of the things that
he's been very clear on is, you know,
the the forward look, which I think is
right because remember monetary policy
is not going to affect much today. It's
going to affect things in two years
time. His big, you know, idea, his big
theme is that of course AI is going to
be very disinflationary. need to look to
that um and respond to that. So I think
that's the narrative that we'll see. It
may wobble at times. Sure. Um but you
know I think um in the near term we see
them just you know staying pat there's
not much uh there's not much to be
gained from cutting right now just as
you're seeing inflation peak.
>> He might find it difficult to get the
rest of the committee on board with that
view looking ahead to the future. That
view might work in years time but what
we just heard is that short term it's
going to be inflationary pressures and
it's very challenging to communicate
that I think to give an exc basically an
excuse a reason whatever you think for
to cut interest rates
>> and it's good to see you thanks for
being here appreciate it thank you sir
in mcy there of Oxford economics let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief
has more Vonnie
>> hey John thank you Chinese President
Xiinping stepping up his calls to end
the war in Iran She calling for a
comprehensive ceasefire saying quote
[music] restarting war is even more
unacceptable. The comments coming as she
hosts Russian President Vladimir Putin
in Beijing.
Target and Lowe's reporting first
quarter earnings that beat Wall Street
estimates. The business lead of digital
payments company Block telling Lisa
Abramowitz the consumer appears [music]
strong.
>> Things seem to be quite resilient right
now. We're not seeing any of the stress
or consumer sentiment or what's
happening with oil prices flow through
to actual behavior.
>> And we'll get more of a sign with
earnings from retailers including TJX
and Elf Beauty later today.
Meta began notifying thousands of staff.
They're being laid off. The Facebook
parent is cutting around 8,000 positions
globally in a restructuring aimed, it
says, at improving efficiency and cost
cutting. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Vonyie in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
awaiting [music]
Nvidia's earnings test.
>> Nvidia will will print a good number,
but not a great number. They're supply
constrained. Uh they're sold out for the
year. And once you're sold out, how do
you beat expectations?
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Angelo Zeno
of CF from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Next up on the earnings front, we get
TJX at 7:30 Eastern time. About 15
minutes ago, we heard from Target.
Target better than expected up in the
pre-market. will stay focused on retail
for you throughout this morning. Later
on this afternoon, you will hear from
Nvidia after the close. That's the
headline act. The Federal Reserve
minutes will be interesting. 2 p.m.
Eastern time. Remember that descent,
that hawkish descent to the easing bias
in the statement. All complicated stuff.
Very vague this easing bias in the
Federal Reserve statement. But
regardless, some push back from FOMC
officials. We'll see if we get more
[music] push back in the minutes
themselves. Look out for that later on
this afternoon. Noteworthy, Bloomberg
Intelligence came out with a survey
recently on Kevin Walsh entering the
Federal Reserve. More doubbish than Pal
is the headline here. Over half of our
survey respondents thought that he would
be more doubbish than Pal while just 9%
said he would have a more hawkish bent.
The survey from Bloomberg Intelligence
noteworthy.
>> Definitely noteworthy. And obviously
that's because of all the rhetoric
surrounding Kevin Walsh [music] and his
statements, especially when he was, you
could say, auditioning for the job. But
this president who certainly wants to
see lower interest [music] rates. But as
we said earlier today, the president
seems to be giving him some breathing
room given the environment we are in,
telling the Washington Examiner that,
you know, he's [music] going to do the
right thing, telling fortune, maybe has
to look at the figures after the war is
over. It seems like Kevin Worsh when it
comes to the president's mind is going
to have some time to [music] get his
feet wet. And maybe that means we're not
going to see an interest rate cut this
year.
>> Here's the direct quote from the
president. I'm going to let him do what
he wants to do. He's a very talented
guy. He's going to be fine. He's going
to do a good job. The president of the
United States on Kevin Walsh ahead of
that swearing in ceremony later on this
week on Friday. If [music] you're just
joining us, welcome to the program.
Here's the state of things in financial
markets. Equity futures firmer by 4/10en
of 1% on [music] the S&P bouncing back
from a 3-day losing streak. The longest
daily losing streak since the end of
March, which just tells you how great
things have been on the bullish side
over the last month to 6 weeks. On the
NASDAQ, we're positive by 3/4 of 1%. On
NASDAQ futures, on the Russell, up
about.5%. Let's turn to the bond market.
Twos, 10, 30s. Yield shaping up as
follows. Yields on a 30-year at the
highest closing level going back to 2007
in yesterday's [music] session this
morning pulling back just two basis
points. 30s to 516. Twos [music] still
elevated around 4.1% on the 2-year. Down
this morning by some three basis points
as well. More data through the week. Of
course, jobless claims coming up
tomorrow morning. Quick check on crude.
Brent and WTI pulling back a touch.
Brent crude down to 108. a break of that
level to the downside. We're down by 3%.
[music] Tension still building, blockade
still in place. And when you speak to
people about what's happening over there
right now, we are running out of options
to maintain the status quo.
>> That's right. Because inventories are
starting to be drawn [music] down and
potentially in the next few weeks and
months in certain parts of the world,
they're going to hit tank bottoms and
then that's it. And then you're going
[music] to potentially see higher oil
prices. I will say with the market
pulling back a little bit, you do see it
[music] feels like the bias and
inclination of this president to really
want to have [music] a negotiation. He
doesn't want to resume those strikes
because earlier this week he told us
that they were planned and he decided to
call them off. Secondly, you're seeing
reports here and there some tankers like
a South Korean tanker early this
morning, some tankers are able to get
through.
>> Brent crude at 108. Watch this space
later on this afternoon. The big one on
the earnings front under surveillance
this morning awaiting Nvidia's earnings
[music] test.
>> Nvidia will will print a good number but
not a great number. The stock has been
sort of underperforming the sector all
year long. I think that will continue.
Nvidia has grown so big and become so so
dominant uh that it's hard for it to
sort of be to beat that. They're supply
constrained. Uh they're sold out for the
year and once you're sold out, how do
you beat expectations?
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Results from Nvidia drew out after the
closing bell, offering a fresh read on
the durability of the AI boom. Angelo
Zeno of CFRA maintaining a strong buy
and a 12-month price target of 270,
writing, "This reflects our view of
Nvidia's expanding total addressable
market penetration into edge devices and
software opportunities." Angela joins us
now for more. Angela, welcome to the
program. I want to pick up on that line
from a bear on this stock, the lone
cell. He calls it an underperformer.
We'll get into that in just a moment.
But this line here, they're sold out for
the year. And once you're sold out, how
do you beat expectations? Angela, what's
your response to that?
>> Yeah, I mean, listen, I I I think, you
know, one, Jensen typically um manages
expectations extremely well, right? So,
I do think there is room for for upside
here. I think when you actually look at
um the trillion dollar backlog number
that he provided back at GTC um you know
expectations in terms of revenue here
through the rest of this year and in
calendar 27 um you know we think there's
actually with potential upside as they
offer you know um you know things like
Grock and what have you to that pipeline
um we actually think there's potentially
10 to 15% upside to the revenue number
in calendar 27 not as much maybe to
calendar 26. You know it, you know, is
the bar higher? Is, you know, are the
numbers significantly bigger than they
have been in the past? Absolutely. But
when you look at the valuation of this
company, 19 times our 27 estimate, you
don't necessarily need to blow the
numbers out at this point any any, you
know, anymore. What you need to do is to
continue to show um things being steady
in nature. You need to potentially
surprise maybe in certain aspects. Maybe
maybe you announce a major buyback or
something along those lines given the
greater um cash flow that you're going
to have here over the next two years.
But I don't necessarily think you need
to significantly beat street
expectations at this point anymore.
>> Angela, this was the blockbuster name.
The earnings were massive and people
were having viewing parties. Remember
that over the last few years feels like
the buzz has come off this stock just a
little bit. And if you look at the
underperformance relative to the sector,
explosive moves in AMD, explosive moves
in Intel. Why are the fun and games
taking place elsewhere?
>> Yeah. I mean, so, so it's the
bottlenecks, right? I mean, investors
love to chase bottlenecks and you've got
bottlenecks really building all over the
place. Uh, you know, whether it be
memory, which has kind of been out there
for a couple of quarters right now and
and there is, you know, we'll see what
happens with the Samsung strike and what
have you. But, um, you know, that
continues to be a major bottleneck, will
continue to be a bottle bottleneck, we
think, through at least the end of next
year. CPUs, optics, it will probably
even be more supply constrained as we go
into 2027 and even some of these power
management component areas. Um, you
know, like the onsemies and even like
the Texas Instruments and analog devices
of the world. So, you kind of think
about, you know, the bottlenecks out
there, there's enormous pricing power
and earnings, you know, potential
earnings uplift there. But, as far as
Nvidia is concerned, we typically don't
look at it relative, at least anymore,
to the semiconductor industry. We
actually compare it more so to the
broader S&P 500. And from that
perspective, they continue to be an
outperformer um given that this is more
of an infrastructure play. And I think
you if you're an investor, you have to
look at it relative to those
expectations.
>> Angela, what about the Chinese
competitors? Are they good enough right
now for the Chinese government to keep
Nvidia out?
>> Well, you know, I it's interesting with
how the the Chinese government is
playing all this. I'd say right now it's
definitely the um the priority of the
the Chinese government to um build that,
you know, that that local ecosystem as
much as they can. I think if all you're
going to do is potentially offer the
H200 to China, um they'll continue to
push back on it. If for some reason you
make things a little bit more enticing,
um I think that you know then you have
conversations where ultimately you could
potentially get um Nvidia inside of
China, but at this point in time you're
probably not going to get much out of
that. And you're probably going to see
the the local Chinese government
continue to emphasize their local
players.
>> I was with the president in China,
Jensen Wong, obviously on that trip. And
at one point, Nvidia was talking about
$50 billion they could be recouping from
the Chinese market. Where are you going
to put that number now, end of the year?
Does it still remain zero
>> at this point? Yes. And you know, maybe
to, you know, John's original question
in terms of where there could be upside
expectations, especially in terms of the
revenue numbers. Um again if if there
was the potential for that number to not
be zero and that again is our
expectation here for the April quarter
and July quarter probably for the street
um that would you know provide a
potential catalyst here for for shares
and upside to those revenue figures.
>> Angela any push back to the spending
from their big customers at the moment
that's noteworthy enough just to think
about a little bit more in the coming
quarters.
>> No, I'd say probably not here over the
next couple of quarters. I mean, I think
the one you always have to look out for
is Meta um at this point in time. That's
the one where, you know, they're
spending so much and you really need to
see them somehow find a way to monetize
um that ecosystem and find some revenue
attached to um you know, outside of, you
know, just what they're doing
internally. You need to find other uh
revenue uh metrics. Otherwise, you could
see the potential for them to maybe dial
back a little bit in future years. But
at this point in time, you know, you
kind of look at just what Alphabet said
on their Q1 earnings call. Um, and the
expectations I'd say from the other big
cloud providers, the, you know, the
Microsofts and Amazon's, uh, I I would
anticipate you continue to see um,
higher numbers just even from the the
NeoClouds themselves. I think you
continue to see that upward trajectory
at least through 2027.
>> Angela, it's good to see you. Angelo
Zena there of CF going into this
earnings report after the closing bell.
Nvidia used to be the big blockbuster
story for earnings season. Just maybe a
little bit of that glitter has just come
off the stock just a touch relative to
the big explosive moves we've seen
elsewhere in the sector. This headline
noteworthy is coming out of the UK.
According to a person familiar with the
matter, the UK is to delay the planned
fuel duty hike due in September. They're
not alone, of course, the UK and making
these kind of considerations. Of course,
the US is talking about maybe suspending
the federal tax. That's a very different
proposal, but ultimately similar story.
There's a lot of pressure on these
governments when it comes to costs and
fuel prices.
>> Exactly. The direction of travel is the
same all around the world. How do we
make sure we can keep fuel prices
affordable for a lot of people? And for
some countries, it's even worse in Asia
Pacific is how do we make sure we can
offer them the fuel they need, let alone
the prices. But as we were talking about
earlier, petrol prices in the United
Kingdom are so much higher because of
the tax than they are, say in the United
States.
>> Well, let's draw a distinction. Of
course, the UK is talking about
suspending a hike to taxes and America's
talking about just suspending the taxes.
Yes.
>> Which is slightly different.
>> Yes, it is different. But again,
direction of travel. Yeah.
>> This is politically really for so many
politicians, especially in America.
Remember the Biden administration how
when gasoline that summer was
>> going to it's a tax every day especially
in a place where people are besides
London where there's lots of trains
people it's these are driving
communities and you see that tax every
single day on the side of the road
>> in [music] the UK inflation slightly
softer than expected this morning that's
helping out the bond market at least in
the United [music and snorts] Kingdom.
Coming up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Mark Leman of Citizens
Commercial Bank, Monica Guerrero of
Morgan Stanley, Christian Keller of
Barclays, and Jennifer Batisas of
Bloomberg Intelligence on Target.
[music] A better story from them this
morning.
This is [music] a global bond market
that has a lower and lower appetite for
duration.
>> We don't see too many factors that
[music] are going to pull Treasury
yields significantly lowering.
>> We don't expect interest rates to come
down.
>> You do need inflation, at least on a
monthly basis, slowing for the Fed to be
comfortable [music] cutting.
>> I don't for a minute see how the Fed can
deliver rate cuts this year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
We've got a small bounce this morning
live from New York City. Good morning.
Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The second [music] hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your price action of scores look like
this. Here's your bounce up by a third
of 1% following three days of losses on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ up by 0.6 on
a Russell, small caps up by 0.4. In the
bond market, new levels to look [music]
at. Twos, 10, 30s, twos still north of
4%. 10 still north of 460. 30 still
close [music] to levels we haven't seen
since 2007 516 37 yields [music] coming
in that's the good news this morning
we're down three basis points on twos on
10 down three also on 30s down by 1 to2
your day ahead is looking like this
shaping up as follows more retail
earnings coming up a little bit later on
this morning [music] you'll hear from
TJX at 7:30 Eastern time that's 30
minutes away after the closing bell a
big report from Nvidia Nvidia the major
earnings report of the day ahead
>> that's going to be the catalyst for this
entire market as the semiconductor trade
obviously is had a bang buster year not
just Nvidia [music] as you've been
talking about names like Intel and AMD
but really what we've seen when it comes
to Nvidia is not just [music] beating
enough but beating at such a high level
clearing this high bar and really for
for the market it's going to either the
green light to continue [music] this
semiconductor AI trade or potentially
it's going to offer a reason for pause
for individuals who have been saying
it's getting a little frothy we've
overdone it
>> it's had a nice rally off the low off by
something like 30% from the March 30 low
that we've all been talking about at the
end [music] of March, but it's nothing
like the rally we've seen elsewhere on
the semi-index. Elsewhere within that
index, you've got explosive moves, 3x
the size of what we've seen in Nvidia,
in the likes of Intel, in the likes of
AMD. That's going to be a story a little
bit later. Story for here and now is the
retail story. Target doing better in the
pre-market, numbers [music] better than
expected going into TJX in 28 minutes
time and head of Walmart a little bit
later this week. Yeah. So shares for
Target [music] have been up more than
25% this year and we've been talking
about what does this mean about the
resilient health of the US consumer. But
you put it well. Actually this has to do
with Target, their turnaround story and
how desperately Target needed it as
they're trying to catch up to Walmart.
And this earnings report shows that it
is working and everyone is getting a
little bit more optimistic between
[music] their turnaround plan and
actually how much Target has risen and
also what they're doing in terms of just
changes [music] at the store. It seems
to be working. target up in a pre-market
by something like 2%. Also later on,
we're also going to get Federal Reserve
minutes. This is interesting. Bit of
hawish push back coming from officials
[music] as chairman Pal steps down as
the chairman and Kevin Walsh steps in.
And it's interesting that the president
is just turning down the volume, dialing
back [music] the heat just a touch going
into the swearing in ceremony on Friday
with these comments to a reporter.
[music] I'm going to let him do what he
wants to do. He's a talented guy, very
talented. He's going to be [music] fine.
He's going to do a good job. My question
would be, is the president going to take
this tone as well on Friday? And on
Friday, is it just going to be a
swearing in or is he going to have an
audience? And is he going to take
questions? And then if he's asked a lot
of questions about how he feels about
interest rates potentially, could this
potentially change? And we see a little
bit more pressure on the new income.
>> As I said in the last hour, let's see if
he sticks sticks to the script a little
bit later this week. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Mark Leman of
Citizens Commercial Bank with stocks
looking to snap a three-day losing
streak. Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley
with President Donald Trump threatening
to resume strikes on Iran. and Christine
Keller of Barclays on the growing
backlash to AI. We begin this hour with
stocks edging Kaya on the heels of
Nvidia's earnings report. Mark Leman of
Citizens Commercial Bank writing, "It's
not just a company print. It's a real
time read on AI demand and the health of
the entire ecosystem." Mark joins us now
for more. Mark, welcome to the program.
Let's get the health check. How is the
health of the entire ecosystem?
>> Uh, it's definitely healthy, Jonathan.
Uh, it's it's headlines every single
day. Um, obviously we haven't we're 3
days from the trial of the century, I
guess, and it came and went. Uh, but
it's still the most important story in
the marketplace outside of oil. Uh, and
we're going to learn learn a lot today.
Outside of markets, Mark, AI's got a big
PR problem. You would have seen the
booze over the weekend, the clumsy
comments coming from a bank CEO that
we've covered extensively in the last 24
hours. You and I have had this
conversation. Is that becoming a bigger
and bigger issue? And how do they
address this?
you know, we did talk about it and it
does not seem to have abated at all. Um,
like you said, it was the bank CEO, it
was some graduation speeches. Uh, they
do have a PR problem and they've hired
the best in the world and that hasn't
actually helped. Um, I think
unfortunately, um, as my kids would say,
it is what it is in a way. Um, I think
there are some issues as it relates to
messaging. There are some issues as it
relates to what's going on in corporate
America, but this freight train is
moving as fast as possible and actually
it's accelerating and it's not going to
slow down.
>> It's the policy story though, Mark, on
the horizon and maybe I'm thinking a
little bit too further out a year, two
years into 2028 and the next general. If
the public are booing and they're
pushing back and they can't get the
message on track, I just wonder when the
policy story starts to become a stock
market problem.
Well, I you I analogized it to what
happened uh four and eight and 10 years
ago when we had Mark uh raise his hand
in front of Congress and all the
internet people raise their hands in
front of Congress and beg them to
regulate them. And I remember watching
Orin Hatch and other people talk about
the internet as if they didn't
understand it. And unfortunately, I
think we're going to see deja vu all
over again and that we don't have
Congress really understanding the what
is actually going on every single day in
corporate America. And you're right, the
messaging in the general um is going to
be really really important. But think
about that two years from now, two and a
half years from now in the big election
in 2028. We do have one obviously in the
fall. what's going to happen in the next
two and a half years is going to be
we're going to look back and say, "Oh my
god, we knew this was coming, but it's
actually more than we even thought."
Then
>> so that's what's going to happen.
>> Forget regulation. What about just a
massive tax on these companies? What's
the impact of that on the stock market?
>> Uh I don't see it. Um I think there's
going to be um local jurisdictions that
obviously make some big u moves on that.
We saw it overseas in Europe. If you
remember what they did with Google and
some other things, we saw that in the
EU. Um, I just don't see that here um
here in the States. I think it's a big
messaging issue. I think it's a big uh
issue as it relates to corporate
America, but I just don't see the
wherewithal for Congress and the federal
government getting involved.
>> John mentioned the standard charter CEO
very clumsy language talking about AI
and displacement of employees and
basically to just use AI instead. How do
you talk about it?
Yeah, I don't I don't see it as just
just wholesale displacement of
employees. What we're seeing is the
empowerment of employees and we're
seeing the ability for people to just do
more um with the kind of tools that
we're creating citizens. Um we have this
reimagine the bank here and we're
showing use cases that are very very
powerful for people. I think it does
question how many people you're going to
need to do that. But I remember when I
started on Wall Street a long time ago,
I was the first person to get a
Blackberry. I was the first person to
get emailed broadly and it sounds so
archaic right now, but boy, I taught a
lot of people back then what it was like
and what power it was and how to not be
afraid of it. And I think we're seeing
that here at Citizens. So this oh my
god, it's everyone's going to be home
using AI for their career. It's I just
don't see it. I see the empowerment more
than I see the problems um as it relates
to total wholesale changes in
employment.
>> Well, Mark, that's the important
distinction. Empowerment or replacement.
The Blackberry was to help you. It was
to empower you. It wasn't to replace
you. And when we talk about agentic AI,
typically we're talking about
replacement and not empowerment. Are we
getting it wrong?
>> Well, I think um as I always say, always
and never are rarely true. I think um
everybody uh being replaced because of a
gentlikely.
I think that empowerment is really
important. And you're right, Jonathan.
Um the Blackberry seems so archaic and
novel, but back then it didn't. Um I I I
will also say for the power of some of
our uh ear young staff members and some
of the people who really understand the
power of this to really make important
strides within our company and all
companies around and show the power of
it as opposed to the fear is really as
important as anything.
>> I'm old school. I wish we never had the
day where we started taking our work
home with us. But that's another
problem. Mike, let's talk about the
opportunity. Nvidia reporting after the
closing bow. I've mentioned this a few
times in the last hour. This used to be
the blockbuster earnings report. Still
is to some extent. Largest company on
the planet of course, but it's lost some
of its glitter. I think over the last
month or so because within the rally in
chips, the explosive moves have been
elsewhere. Mark, what do you think's
changing?
>> I I think it is still the most important
company in the world. It shows because
it really does power. It's the fuel for
the AI and fuel for corporate America
right now. Um, I think part of it is
just the bigger they are a little bit is
is sort of the messaging here. You've
talked a little bit about the broadening
of the chip market and what Intel uh and
AMD have done as it relates to Intel. Um
it may the stock may have doubled in the
last few months, but it's still relative
to that market cap. That's a one day
move in Nvidia. So, I'm a little less um
worried that that move is is a Nvidia
underperforming. I I I I do think it's
the most important company. The bigger
story, I think, Jonathan, is what's
going on with the big AI companies and
and the share that's going on. Um, the
jocking between Anthropic, OpenAI, and
the others. Um, there's plenty of market
cap and there's plenty of investments
still going on. That to me is still the
biggest story in Nvidia is going to
power all of them.
>> Follow the talent, Mark. I'm following
the talent and they seem to be going to
one, not the other. What's gone wrong at
OpenAI?
Well, I I I think like a lot of um
success stories, I think um big
management um issues internally.
Obviously, there's been some stories
that we've all read about what's gone on
inside OpenAI. Um Anthropic has been
really mighty in the last few months.
They did um I think in terms of PR and
in terms of their quality of their
chips, I'm sorry, their quality of their
offering um they seem to have won. Uh we
we saw that with the uh Iran war and
some of the inner fighting that happened
with the federal government. That news
certainly has seemed to die down. Um
Anthropic's done an incredible job
obviously over the last year of of their
story, of their success, of their
offering. It's it's second to none right
now. Um I won't count out by any
stretch. It's an enormous market.
There's too many winners that we can
mention right here. But yes, things are
um every single day um we hear a
different story. But Anthropic has
definitely carried the last few months.
>> Mark, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by, catching up with us. Thank
you, sir. Mark Leman there of Citizens
Commercial Bank heading into this
earnings report later on after the
close. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The European Union
finalizing the text of its long delayed
US trade deal after months of
negotiations. The EU clearing a major
hurdle to ratify the pact before
President Donald Trump's threatened
deadline to impose higher tariffs on
autos July 4th.
The World Health Organization convening
a meeting of its emergency committee as
it searches for vaccines to contain the
widening Ebola outbreak. More than 500
suspected cases and [music]
131 deaths have been reported in eastern
Congo, while Uganda has confirmed two
cases and one death.
and Goldman Sachs is taking the lead
role in the SpaceX IPO. Sources is
telling us here at Bloomberg and Morgan
Stanley also listed as a lead bank. Elon
Musk's company is seeking evaluation of
more than $2 trillion. The filing is
expected to be made public as soon as
this afternoon. [music] And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. It's a topic we've
covered so many times. It's crazy how
big these companies have got [music] in
private markets. And they're not alone.
This has been a story of the last
decade.
>> Massive. And everyone is excited to read
this IPO perspectus. [music]
Potentially, we're going to get that
today. They're not alone. SpaceX and
then maybe anthropic, OpenAI, all in the
mix over the next 12 months, the
remainder of this year. Up next on the
program, threatening fresh strikes on
Iran.
>> They come to the table. They're begging
to make a deal. I hope we don't have to
do the war, but we [music] may have to
give them another big hit.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Monica
Aguero of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
We've had a three-day losing run. We're
looking to unwind some of that going
into earnings from Nvidia later on this
afternoon. Equity futures bouncing back
by about a third of 1% on the S&P and
the Nasdaq up by 0.6 six on the Russell
up by 0.4. If you turn to fixed income,
we'll start with treasuries. Yields
closing at the highest levels since 2007
at the very long end of the curve. 30s
this morning, down two basis points,
on 30s at the moment. Want to turn to
the UK where you see [music] a big rally
at the front end of the curve. The
2-year down by some 10 basis points.
Earlier on this morning, inflation lower
than expected in the United Kingdom, but
they have still got a price problem and
the government's attempting to respond
[music] to that. Zakista, the British
prime minister, noting just moments ago
that they will be extending the fuel
duty freeze due to the conflict in the
Middle East.
>> It's still very expensive though, even
if without even stopping that hike for
when it comes to petrol prices, it's
still incredibly challenging. I sent Guy
Johnson a me message asking how much is
it right now? I remember [music] when I
lived there, it was more expensive the
United States, but actually how much is
it right now? He says it's about 158p a
liter. 50% of that is tax. He said, "In
[music] your language, $748
would be the price in the United
States." So that would be the highest
state gasoline we would see in the
United States, higher than California.
>> A massive chunk of that is taxes. A
massive chunk. And all we're talking
about here is freezing an increase in
the [music] taxes. That's very, very
different to just cutting the taxes.
>> And the conversation United States is
we're going to cut the tax, not we're
not going to extend it higher. The
United Kingdom [music] was actually even
at these current prices were planning to
hike taxes more. This is why they have
an incredibly difficult political
problem.
>> That's the latest [music] in the UK.
Future state side positive by about a
third of 1%. I want to turn to crude
just briefly. Brent and WTI Brent
looking like this still around 110 at
the moment. Let's call it 10860 at the
moment. This morning we're down by about
2.4%. And the surveillance this morning
threatening fresh strikes on Iran.
>> So they called up. They had heard I made
the decision. I said, "Sir, could you
give us a couple of more days?" I'm
saying two or three days. Maybe Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, something. Maybe early
next week. I hope we don't have to do
the war, but we may have to give them
another big hit.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump warning of a
return to hostilities in Iran while
Senate Republicans are signaling unease
about continuing the war. Tyler Kendall
has the latest. Hey, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Well, last night we saw the
Republican le Senate advance a war
powers resolution in a key procedural
vote, marking the first time that this
has happened amid a dozen or so attempts
since the conflict began. Republican
Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana was
the latest Republican to cross party
lines, vote with three other Republicans
who had been in favor of this measure.
Maybe not so surprising since he just
lost his primary election over the
weekend after failing to secure
President Trump's endorsement. We should
say that this is largely symbolic. It's
unclear if it will pass the full Senate,
then it would need to pass the House,
then it would end up on President
Trump's desk where he would very likely
veto it. Though, it does mark a clear uh
eroding of support when it comes to the
conflict in Iran as President Trump
weighs additional military action. Just
yesterday, he said that he will give
Iran quote, "A limited amount of time to
come to the negotiating table amid
reports that the president has been
advised recently that a limited amount
of strikes could pressure Iran to make a
deal. We should mention that earlier
this week, Iranian officials did say
that they will harshly retaliate if the
US attacks again. But so far at this
point, the White House has maintained
that Iran's latest counterp proposals
have been insufficient, mainly over a
lack of discussion when it comes to
potential curves on the country's
nuclear program. But John, we know other
differences still remain, including at
least publicly, such as Iran's
insistence on full financial relief,
payments for war damages, and also that
the country retain control over the
straight of Hermuz.
>> Tyler Kenner with the latest in the
nation's capital. Tyler, thank you.
Let's build on some of this. Monica
Guerrero of Morgan Stanley writing the
following. The impact of the straight
closure is showing up in economic data.
It's likely to influence the midterm
elections. Trump needs to find some
offramps. Monica joins us now for more.
Monica, welcome in. Good to see you.
>> Thanks for having
>> morning. Let's talk about the pressure
here and start with the problem. Have we
got an inflation problem in this
country?
>> Yes, I would say so. You know, the
latest print right at 3.8%.
That is notable. We've been talking
about inflation coming inflation coming
for such a long time now. started with
tariffs, didn't really show up, and then
now with oil, that's the thing to tip us
over the edge.
>> And look at how places like the UK are
looking to remedy some of this. Maybe
they're not going to put up taxes.
Great. People need more than that. What
kind of remedies will exist in the US
ahead of those midterms?
>> And there's a limited playbook that they
have. They could do, you know, a federal
tax, you know, freeze or pause. They
could cut. Um, but that only comes in at
about a less than 20% savings, right, on
the actual price. So when you do
something like that, you want to have a
big a big impact and you want to do it
right before the election. So doing it
now isn't the time. It has a very short
window. You could also start doing some
uh you know adjustments to the SPR, the
strategic petroleum reserve. You could
actually, you know, release more supply,
but again that also has a finite window
where there's about a month or two where
you get that relief and then your oil
prices go back up. So when they make
take those measures, you essentially
have to time it with the election.
>> Will Democrats vote for that given the
fact that this is going to hurt
Republicans, higher gasoline prices?
>> I mean, as far as Democrats uh, you
know, voting for it, this is what's
interesting about that is that they're
looking to also get ahead on the
affordability narrative. So that's what
they have to balance. How challenging
does this get in the next CPI print? You
know, what does that look like? So, we
have to look at the forward impact
because you wouldn't get implementation
until a September or October time
period. So, there's still time. If it
gets worse, then you get Democrats, I
think, to the table.
>> Do you think all of this potentially is
going to push the president to make
different decisions in Iran than he
otherwise would have looking at dealing
with the regime? I think at this stage
you're looking at a a very hemmed in
administration or hemmed in
administration, meaning that the choices
are limited and it doesn't matter at
this point how drastic um inflation
becomes over the long run because you're
dealing with the same issue. We don't
have a clear plan for exit and any plan
that we have is going to take additional
defense spending, right? defense
investment in infrastructure in order to
keep the straight open. So that is a a
given and so for us it's how quickly can
they put those resources to work and how
can we work with our neighbors and
that's where the NATO piece comes in.
>> You can see how difficult they're
finding it to maintain the status quo
here. Obviously they want the pressure
on Iran. They want to breach storage
capacity for that oil industry to have
massive problems. But this is why we're
seeing waiverss here, waiverss there
just to keep energy moving to get it to
where it needs to go and it's getting
harder and harder to maintain the status
quo.
>> Yeah. The Treasury Secretary basically
when he came in as the new Treasury
Secretary, remember how much he talked
about on this program that the Europeans
are the ones that also need to help when
it comes to sanctions on Russian crude.
Yet it's this Treasury Department that
is extending a waiver for another 30
days for individuals to continues to buy
Russian oil. Mer, I wanted to talk about
the Federal Reserve with you if we can
sort of carve out some time to do that.
There's a swearing in ceremony taking
place on Friday with Kevin Walsh and the
president. It's notable, Amarie's talked
about this the past few days that it
just appears the president's turning
down the heat just a little bit on the
institution as his guy walks in. What
are you expecting from Kevin Walsh? What
are you and the team looking for?
>> Well, for us, we think that he's going
to continue to fulfill obligation just
in the same way that, you know, Pal
would maybe with different language. And
I think that that's the important thing.
You know, I'm not our, you know, Fed
rate strategist, so I won't get into all
the details, but as far as we're
concerned, we think that we're going to
continue to see normal operations, and
that the big focus right now is going to
be on the labor market. Does inflation
actually cause weakness in the consumer,
then you get maybe an an opportunity for
Worsh to act, and that's where you could
see those cuts into in 2027. So, still a
longer leadup to that, but we don't
think there's going to be a huge, you
know, reshaking of the house right away.
and that the temperature is going to die
down so that the new chair can get
settled, get a grasp on on the current
state of affairs and then follow the
data, follow the labor market as to the
next steps.
>> But ultimately, do you think he's a hawk
or a dove?
>> Um, at this stage, we think that he's in
a I would I I don't want to say if he's
a hawk or a dove. Okay, let me let me
just address that directly.
>> It's only because what we've heard from
him, we've heard both Kevin Worshes.
We've heard a hawk of years ago and a
dove when he was auditioning. But this
is this is what's so interesting about
it is that you have the political
pressure, right, and the desire to
fulfill the president's mandate, right,
and goal of having lower interest rate,
but also keeping the entire monetary
system on track. And so those two things
sometimes are in competition. So if you
can find a way to do that and satisfy,
you know, both masters, then you have a
really successful outcome. And I think
that that's what he's looking for. He's
looking for those opportunities to not
let things get too hot, right? um while
still being able to fulfill the
president's agenda.
>> I think we all wish him the best of
luck. Monica, it's good to see you.
Thank you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Monica of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management going into that swearing in
ceremony later on this week that will
take place on Friday between Kevin Walsh
and the president of the United States.
A lot of pressure on that institution at
the moment. He wants to reform it. He
wants to make some changes. I think a
lot of people who follow that
institution think those changes should
be made, but the optics are going to be
really difficult because some of the
reforms, some of the changes, for
instance, let's say PCE is not the right
index for us anymore. We want to change
that. Okay. That is just going to look
like he wants to change it because he
wants to cut interest rates to please
the person in the White House. Even if
that might not be the case.
>> Exactly. It's going to look like you're
changing the goalpost just so you can
get to the outcome that you want because
maybe there's been undue pressure on you
to actually get this job. I will say
though, the Treasury Secretary has one
point talked about maybe actually we
should be targeting an inflation range,
but said you cannot do that until you
hit your 2% target because this idea you
can't be changing the goalpost midame.
>> The good news this morning, yields
pulling back by two or three basis
points back down to about 464 on 10.
Coming up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Christian Keller of
Barclays on the growing backlash to AI
across this nation live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg [music] TV.
>> [music]
>> A better picture so far this morning. Up
by a third of 1% on the S&P 500. The S&P
advancing by a third following a 3-day
losing streak. On the S&P 500, [music]
the longest such losing streak going
back to the end of March. Of course,
over that period, only down by 2%
compared [music] to a much, much bigger
rally over the last 6 to 8 weeks. On the
NASDAQ, up by 0.7, the main event a
little bit later, Nvidia after the
closing bell. [music] Before we get
there, earnings from retail, retailers
across this country reporting, including
Target. Target in the pre-market high by
1.4%. better [music] numbers from them a
little bit earlier on this morning.
We'll get numbers from TJX in just a
moment. We'll bring those headlines to
you. Want to turn to the bond market.
Let's just sit on this for a moment.
Twos, [music] tens, and 30s. And we'll
start with the long end of the curve.
And then we'll talk about the
relationship between the front end and
the long end. The long end of the curve.
Yesterday, the highest closing level
we've seen on a 30-year yield going back
to 2007. We're seeing this worldwide.
Germany, the highest level since 2011.
More recently, in the last few weeks,
the UK the highest close since 1998 and
Japan the highest level on record.
[music] Lots of reasons for it. The
energy shock driving inflation
expectations. It's highlighting limited
fiscal space in certain places exposing
leadership issues in others. [music] The
UK being one. They're not alone, of
course. And increasing a lot of
uncertainty about the outlook for
interest rates. And it's the outlook for
interest rates I want to spend some time
on and what the 2-year and Fed policy
might mean further out along the curve
beyond twos out to 30s and whether we
could see [music] a gap open up between
the policy rate of the Federal Reserve
and the very long end of the curve. So
let me go back to that Bloomberg
intelligence survey and what we might
expect from Kevin Walsh. This is their
takeaway. Over half of our survey
respondents [music]
think that he will be more doubbish than
Chairman Pal. Well, just 9% said he
would have a more hawkish [music]
bent. In addition to that, in this
survey, they also expect a steeper curve
for Kevin Walsh to drive a [music]
steeper curve. And the bare steepener is
the most widely held steepener view. So,
what [music] does that mean? That means
you get a selloff driven by the long end
of the curve. Why? Because if you get
Kevin Walsh, who's excessively doubbish
[music] and attempts to force rate cuts
when we don't need them, that dovish
policy mistake could be seen with higher
yields at the back end [music] of the
curve. I'm not saying that's happening
right now. I'm just saying that's
something to watch in the months to
come.
>> What's so interesting about this in
Bloomberg intelligence survey is that
actually it's contrary to what we've
seen in terms of [music] market
expectations. What we've seen is a lot
of market expectations change direction
where the market is now pricing in
potentially a hike at the [music] end of
this year even though some analysts
still have cuts priced in. What we've
been seeing in terms of the inflation
picture because of higher fuel prices as
well a big key [music] driver of that
individual now saying he might have to
hike even though in people think well no
we heard him be a little bit doubbish in
audition process they think he's going
to go in a dove. The president seems to
be giving him room, I think, to do
nothing for the rest of the year.
>> This bond market is looking for an
anchor. And of course, if we address
this and this being crude, maybe we can
make some [music] improvements to this
picture. Right now, crude is lower by
2%. We're down to about 109 of Bren WTI
around 102. The blockade continues. The
status quo has its own problems and
we're running out of options to maintain
that [music] status quo. That seems to
be the takeaway from our program so far
this morning.
>> Absolutely. When it comes to the crude
picture though, you are seeing stories
that could potentially mean a little bit
softer in terms of prices. One, you have
like a South Korean tanker trying
[music] to go through the straight. If
that gets through, that would be a very
good sign. You have a report from
Bloomberg yesterday, our [music]
colleagues talking about the fact that
NATO, if the war continues by July, are
willing to potentially, if they're able
to get unanimous consensus, willing
potentially to go help the United States
force the straight open. And then what
are you seeing from OFAC in the Treasury
Department? Anywhere they can find
barrels, they're willing to keep them on
[music]
when it comes to supply.
>> Frank crude 109 this morning and down by
a little more than 2%. That's the price
action cross asset. Let's get you some
news on our radar this morning. Target
lows and TJX all reporting earnings.
Target rising after posting its best
sales results in some four years. While
TJX also higher on stronger than
expected guidance. Bose on the other
hand facing pressure after failing to
raise its outlook citing housing market
challenges. Elsewhere, Vice President JD
Vance defending President Trump saying
he does not make his own stock moves.
The president doesn't sit at the Oval
Office on his computer on his like Robin
Hood account buying and selling stocks.
That's absurd. He's not made making
these stock trades himself. Bance adding
that he and President Trump are both
supporters of banning members of
Congress from trading stocks. And
finally, President Donald Trump
threatening to resume strikes on Iran in
a push for a deal to end the war.
>> They come to the table. They're begging
to make a deal cuz they're begging to
make a deal. I hope we don't have to do
the war, but we may have to have to give
them another big hit. We may have to
give them another big hit. I'm not sure
yet.
>> The president warning attacks could come
in the next two to three days.
>> So, he gave a timeline. Two to three
days. maybe Friday, Saturday, Sunday,
something maybe early next week, a
limited period of time. That's the
window the president is basically giving
the Iranians. You heard JD Vance, the
vice president in the briefing room
yesterday say they want to make a deal
as well, reiterating what the president
said, but then you have reporting from
the Wall Street Journal and just obvious
reporting coming out of Iran state media
is that the position negotiations in the
US hasn't changed. And right now, you
brought this great point up throughout
the week. There's really two parallel
conversations happening. One, the United
States is happening with its partners
and the regime to just try to open up
the straight of Hermoose. Then the
second is a long-term negotiation when
it comes to nuclear.
>> Was that a news conference on a building
site yesterday? [laughter]
>> Is that what that was?
>> It was a news conference
>> briefing reporters around the ballroom.
>> He wanted to show off the ballroom. So
in front of the construction site also
brought in photos. I believe he also
told the chef at the White House to have
breakfast available. I think like bacon
egg sandwiches. Yeah, I saw photos of
that. Um not sure who took them but I
saw photos of that and then of course
once the president is done any questions
he always wants takes questions and then
it becomes about anything the reporters
want to ask.
>> The food looked pretty good. I'll put it
that way. I saw some of the pictures.
Let's talk about a big story developing
in this country. Let's turn to tech. The
backlash building against the rise of
AI.
>> The rise of artificial intelligence
is the next industrial revolution.
Oh [laughter]
w
>> today we stand on this edge of another
technological transformation. I know
what many of you are feeling about that.
I can hear you. There [cheering] is a
fear.
College graduates booing commencement
speech is embracing artificial
intelligence. The standard charted CEO
Bill Winters looking to explain after
saying the technology could replace
quote lower value human capital.
Christine Keller of Barclay's remaining
positive writing the anxiety about
machines replacing human workers has not
played out despite the dramatic rise of
automation. There has been no dramatic
rise in unemployment. Christian joins us
now for more. Christian, let's get into
this. It's an important conversation. Do
you think there's a big gap opening up
between the narrative and the data?
Well, I think if you look at history and
and you know these are not entirely new
developments. When we had big
technologies, there's always the fear
that that would create a lot of
unemployment. If you look at it over the
past 80 years or so that we have data,
you know, it just never paid out. You
know, it's first of all, new technology
automates, so it replaces jobs, but it
also augments and that often makes
people more productive and new jobs are
being created. That is the story that we
can document. You know there if you look
at the occupation that we have now since
the 50s every year there were new
occupations people couldn't even think
of beforehand. So that's why at least in
the immediate future or even the midterm
until we get to that maybe you know that
that singularity space where machines do
everything. I think that is an overblown
fear of uh of of mass unemployment from
from AI.
>> Christian luckily you're at Barclays. If
you're at Standard Charter we might be
having a different conversation. Venat
would never use the kind of words that
we used in the last 24 hours, but it's
kind of awkward. These CEOs seem to be
finding it really difficult to talk
about this technology and how will
improve lives and not just replace jobs.
Christian, what's the best approach do
you think going forward to talk about
what you think is on the horizon?
>> I think first of all it is about you
know productivity increases and that is
what the market is betting on as well.
And so far if you look at research a
very very large variation of of of
forecasts you know there are some
including normal price laurates say this
is going to be negligible.1 percentage
point in labor productivity each year
there are other studies is saying 3.5 so
the question is what is more likely and
what we've done recently is we looked at
an additional angle from just the AI you
know that is being discussed right now
mainly digital you know a large language
model and what we are seeing is now that
we are having um you know physical AI
humanoid robotics and we think that
addition that combination of the two may
make a huge difference because it it
increases the task that can be automated
and you know bear with me you may think
well that means more pressure on labor
markets but it also means that the
productivity gains could be much higher
and and we think that is a positive
thing
>> in your note I want to pose this
question to you you say is it ha
hastella vista moment for human workers
at some point though will we see firms
firms have just a smaller footprint when
it comes to employees.
the certain firms yes and in certain
occupations it will go down but as I
said it's really about the new jobs that
may be created that may may happen from
this think about it the jobs we have
today many of them if you'd ask our
grandparents they couldn't have imagined
you know that you would have these type
of jobs that we have today so I think
that is in a way what typically is
missed in the debate and uh yeah I
that's really it and if you have an
expansion of the production frontier you
know It's hard to think that that's a
negative thing. Now, I do believe that
the tendency towards the income of an
economy going towards capital rather
than labor that probably could increase.
I mean, there's a lot of evidence for
this. You could even have wages rise but
rise less than the overall economy
grows. That means like the share that
labor takes home versus the share that
capital takes home can go down further.
There are some issues with that. I think
you know the about distributive policies
etc taxing capital income we're not
there yet but those can be solved the
underlying message is you increase the
pie and that in principle is a good
thing for humans in general.
>> Yeah Christian that's what I wanted to
pick up on and I'm pleased you went
there because we've been confronting
those forces now for decades the shift
of income away from labor to capital.
Can you walk us through, you just kind
of touched on it just briefly, the kind
of policy response you would anticipate
as those forces pick up, if they pick up
in the next decade?
>> I think um what what what you would see
is I think it's quite straightforward
that ultimately if you say look uh you
know capital is taking an increasing
share of what the economic economy
creates as income, you would try to have
to tax that rather than labor. You know,
we have still systems across the western
world really that are very skewed
towards taxing labor income and and that
makes less and less sense if you have a
world where first of all also many
people you know can benefit from it. I
think what's what's important is that
the capital income doesn't acrue only to
a very very few people but that is
widespread then even people who may be
seeing their labor income decrease as
long as they participate in the capital
income uh improvements that would then
still be a net positive even for those
who are not maybe at the very top of
that uh of that chain of where where
income goes.
>> Kristen what do you suppose that would
mean for capitalism? Would that be a
world with a bigger government, more
services, more universal basic income?
How do you see that playing out?
>> Look, there there's always the end
state, right? Where do you get at the
the final stage? And as I said, there's
a lot of um a lot of room to go where
how far you know, not only AI, but also
what we are particularly talking about
in our study, humanoid robotics, how far
they go, in which stages they come. Um,
you know, I believe in the in the short
run that doesn't necessarily mean bigger
government, but it means changing our
taxation system. Uh, I think that seems
very clear that you need to modernize it
to a world where it's no longer labor is
the main source of income. Christian,
thoughtful stuff and forgive me for
getting to the end of history several
decades down the road. This was fun.
Thank you, sir. Christine Keller of
Barclays on a new important note from
them. Their research has been fantastic
on on the future of the labor force with
this technology.
>> That ending point though and what this
means for the political sphere is very
interesting because this is going to be
top of mind and to the midterm elections
this year, but also really as you
mentioned earlier for 2028. Bernie
Sanders last year put out a note talking
about it means AI and all of this could
mean a 100 million job losses in the
United States over the next decade. He
wants a robot tax and you're not just
seeing it from him. It's also
individuals on the right as well. This
is one area of agreement.
>> Futures this morning up by third of 1%
on the S&P 500 with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. The UK government
set to delay a planned hike on motor
fuel taxes that was due to take effect
in September. Prime Minister Kirst says
he is extending the freeze through the
end of the year [music] after a surge in
costs since the Iran war.
It's one of the most highly anticipated
financing deals of the [music] year.
source is telling us here at Bloomberg
banks are preparing to sell $49 billion
worth of debt to back Paramount's
takeover [music] of Warner Brothers
Discovery.
In sports, the Knicks off to a strong
start in the Eastern Conference Finals
after storming back to win game one.
They were down 22 points in the fourth
quarter before locking down defensively
and [music] coming back to fourth
overtime. Jaylen Brunson led all scorers
with 38 points. And that is your [music]
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Vonyie, thank you. Thank you very
much. 22 points, 8 minutes on the clock.
[music] Looks dull and dested. You know,
if I was there, and this is bad. I know
I got to bed very early, so forgive me.
If I was there, I would have left. I
would have walked out of MSG and um that
would have been a massive mistake.
>> I actually went to a Knicks game
recently and I left early because of the
shift we have getting up. And
thankfully, they were winning and they
were up and it wasn't a big deal, but I
would have totally regretted that. 7
minutes 40 seconds on the clock and
you're down by 22 points and [music] you
still win. Absolutely unbelievable. You
know, I woke up in the middle of the
night and I checked the score and we
were losing [music] and I was just
really upset. But then I woke up for
good. Then I watched the whole fourth
quarter on the way into work.
>> Crazy turnaround. Just [music]
unbelievable game. Up next on the
program, persistent consumer resilience.
>> Things seem to be quite resilient right
now. We're not seeing any of this stress
or consumer sentiment or what's
happening with oil prices flow through
to actual behavior.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jen Bartes
of Bloomberg Intelligence on the latest
earnings this morning. Target out
earlier and TJX2. Those two names in
focus going into Walmart numbers later
this week.
[music]
We're doing better this morning. [music]
Up by a third of 1% on the S&P 500,
higher by 0.6 on the NASDAQ, on the
Russell, up by 0.5. Retail earnings from
TJX, from Target have been good so far.
We'll spend some [music] time on that in
just a moment. If you turn to the bond
mod, we've had some real headwinds
growing in the global [music] bond
market. 10-year yields up in six of the
last seven full trading days. over that
period higher by around 25 basis points.
We caught up with Barclays [music] just
yesterday a Rajadaka who said this with
debt rising faster than growth [music]
worsening inflation profiles no
political will for fiscal reform there
is little reason to reach for the long
end. He did not like [music] this bond
market at all.
>> Absolutely not. They don't want to touch
it. And Barclays is even some of their
analysts are feeling that we can get to
5.5% [music]
um on the 30-year potentially if this
environment continues. A lot of this has
to do with not just what's going on in
the fiscal space already where where
some of these governments are [music]
spending too much over the course of the
years. What is happening right now when
it comes to oil? How long can we live
with 110 basically holding on to Brent?
The fact of the matter is maybe not that
much longer when you think of NATO
saying by July we might have to also do
something and go help the United States
in the street of Hermoose because their
economies are feeling it the worst
>> just on the bond market. That's AJ's
point. At this price it doesn't get it
done. who wants a yield closer to 5% and
right now we're around 464 and at times
at the long end of the curve
particularly in places like Japan, the
UK, it has just really felt unhinged. It
feels like a bond market without an
anchor. Will this be the anchor? Need a
much bigger move than this. We're down
2% on Brent and on WTI this morning.
Brent at 109. WTI around 102. Consumer
squeeze continues. Response at the
political level continues to build. It
ain't enough. The pressure in the UK is
the one to watch. They're freezing a
fuel tax hike. They're also considering
pushing supermarkets and grocery chains
to cap food prices, which anyone [music]
who's flatly followed economics and the
history of economics knows that's not
always a great idea.
>> Not always a great idea. And and we saw
that play out, remember, in the mayor
race in New York, basically giving
[music] the current mayor, Mom Donnie, a
little bit of a lesson on economics on
how that actually does not work when you
cap food [music] prices. What I'm
astonished with the United Kingdom after
Guy Johnson told me where petrol prices
are right now would [music] mean north
of $7 a gallon in the United States. How
are they even considering the hike in
September in the first place?
>> Let's talk about some of those retailers
and the consumer squeeze under
surveillance this morning. Persistent
consumer resilience.
>> Things seem to be quite resilient right
now. Like we have seen an increase in
spending at the at gas stations. Um, but
consumers seem to to have absorbed that.
And so we're not seeing any of the
stress or consumer sentiment or what's
happening with oil prices flow through
to actual behavior. Despite some of the
the stresses and the headlines that that
you might read, things look pretty good.
So here's the latest this morning.
Retail earnings ramping up with Target
today. The retailer rising after posting
its best comparable sales growth in four
years. Jen Bartis of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more. Jen,
welcome to the program. We can talk
about the backdrop, the consumer
squeeze, the environment, Walmart and
the horizon. Can we just spend some time
on the turnaround at Target and
execution? What do you think they're
doing right at the moment?
>> Well, it really comes from a lot of
investment that they've made in supply
chain and efficiencies. And so, when you
think about it, although that's kind of
the back end of the business, um, what
it translates into is having the right
things in the stores at the right times
with shelves full. And that makes it
easier for them to then run promotions
and and advertise and bring people back
into the stores. And so I think a lot of
the tactics that they've employed are
turning out to drive some traffic
growth, drive that improved result. Um,
but it's really stemming from those
organizational and procedural changes
that they're making at the heart of the
organization.
>> What else do they need to do to catch up
with competitors like Walmart?
Well, you know, I think one of the
things that happened with Target is, you
know, they need to stay true to who
Target is. Um, and so I think it's a a
dangerous it's a dangerous path to try
to chase Walmart and best Walmart at
what Walmart does well. Instead, I think
Target needs to get back to that sense
of what is it that consumers really love
about Target or Tar as people used to be
excited about and and focus on those
areas and building their brand with the
people that care about those products.
Um, and that's the direction that we see
the management team taking, which is
pretty encouraging.
>> I love that you say that because that's
what me and my cousins used to call it
growing up. They had a fun makeup
section and all this exciting stuff in
the health wellness space. We used to
call it tar. Is that what they're
leaning into right now? Is that where
they're seeing sales increase?
>> Well, a lot of their sales are coming
from household essentials um and from
food, which is really not surprising
considering um that people have sort of
retreated to those essentials. But areas
that have sparked some growth lately.
They've always been strong in beauty. Um
apparel sales are improving. Hardlines,
which is, you know, some of the uh the
home decor type of items, those sales
are improving. And those are the things
that are at the core of Target Essence.
Um and so um we're seeing that slowly
turn. Um and again that's helping
support the results that we saw today.
>> Jen, you've seen Target, you've seen
TJX, we get Walmart tomorrow. What are
you expecting now?
>> Yeah, for for Walmart, you know, they
have been on a roll. Um you know, they
have been consistently pulling in more
consumers into their ecosphere and
holding them uh and and capturing a
greater share of their their wallet and
spending. Um, you know, the current
backdrop is just very conducive for
anybody playing in the in the value
space. Um, that includes TJX this
morning, that includes Target, that
includes Walmart. Um, you know, to to
continue to have the opportunity to gain
u share of wallet. Um, and so, um, you
know, there's there's no reason to think
that Walmart isn't also benefiting from
those macro trends. Um, you know, we're
expecting to see, you know, you know,
consistent growth from Walmart that
we've seen in in recent quarters.
>> They're having a good year. That's for
sure. Jan, it's good to see you. Jen
Bartis there of Bloomberg Intelligence.
The turnaround continues over at Taj.
>> It continues and actually I was in a
Target recently and one thing that you
do if you have the app, you can see what
you want and what exact aisle it is is
on or you can have them deliver it to
your car. You go into that exact aisle.
You know where it is. You don't have to
waste time looking around. That's sort
of the push they're doing when it comes
to technology that's actually been
helping this company.
>> Walmart the next stop target this
morning up by 1.4%. The next stop for
this market, of course, Fed minutes
later on this afternoon, then a big
earnings report after the closing
battle. You might have heard the Nvidia
reports a little bit later on today.
Into all of that, equity futures on the
S&P 500 building and bouncing by about a
third of 1% on the S&P. An advance on
the Nasdaq as well following a three-day
run of losses on the benchmark on the
S&P this morning. The Nasdaq higher by
0.6. To turn to fixed income, lots of
jitters, nerves about what's developing
at the long end of the yield curve. 30s
this morning coming back in by a single
basis point 51648
10s at 464 this move in crude won't hurt
Brent and WTI coming back down WTI and
Brent down by some 2% this morning Brent
crude at about 109 coming up in the
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
we'll catch up with David Kelly of JP
Morgan Asset Management Megan Welch of
Brown Gibbons Lang and Company Kathy
Bosjanthic of Nationwide and Ben Risus
of Melius Research from New York City
[music] you're watching Bloomberg V.
[music]
This is not simply an AIdriven rally.
It's a broad rally.
>> What we are seeing is the AI momentum
continues [music] to move forward.
>> Were it not for AI, this would be a very
very different story.
>> You asked me to pick a side right now, I
would not own equities.
>> Just cuz you're not at 2000 bubble
territory doesn't mean you're not in a
bubble.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
[music] An Marie Hordern.
>> Interesting to hear those comments from
AJ Rajadia over at Barclays. This is
someone who was super bullish at the end
of March when this market hit a new low.
Had a big rally off the back of that.
Now he doesn't like stocks [music] and
he doesn't like bonds either and the
situation in the Middle East has got him
a little bit nervous.
>> When he came on originally and the trade
of hummus was closed and he was doubling
down on equities and saying we're going
to see the [music] S&P 500 take off.
This train is going to continue because
the AI trade. My eyes were coming out of
my head because what I was talking to
individuals on the ground [music] and
commodity experts were talking about how
dire the issue was going to be for
energy and that's AJ that showed up
yesterday.
>> The power of earnings and that's why he
was bullish initially. It's not that he
didn't think the situation in the Middle
East didn't matter. He just didn't think
it mattered [music] yet. He thinks it
matters now with bonds breaking out and
yields breaking out to new highs more
recently. If you're just joining to the
program, welcome to the program live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning to you all. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts with these scores right here.
Equity futures on [music] the S&P 500
bouncing back by a third of 1% following
a three-day losing streak which amounted
to a loss of about [music] 2% on the
benchmark. On the Nasdaq up by 0.6 going
into that major waiting for both the S&P
and the NASDAQ, the [music] number one
rating on these stock indexes. We'll
hear from Nvidia after the close. In the
bond market, [music] new levels on 30s,
the highest close we've seen on a
30-year yield going back to 2007 this
morning, down two basis points. 30s at
after the close invidia. Before we get
there, Fed minutes. Now, typically,
yeah, this can be a little bit snoozy.
This gets more interesting given [music]
the push back we've seen on the
committee over the last few weeks,
>> right? When it comes to those descents,
it's going to be interesting to go
through some of these minutes. also
ahead of a new Fed chair arriving
getting sworn in the end of this week on
Friday with [music] the president of
United States at the White House. Also
politically very different. Haven't seen
that happen Jonathan [music] since the
late 1980s with Alan Greenspan.
>> Fed minutes coming up a little bit later
on this afternoon. Nvidia after the
close. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management with stocks looking to snap
their longest slide since March. Megan
Welch of Brown Gibbons Lang on the next
phase of defense investing and Ben
writes of Melius Research expecting a
beat from Nvidia. We begin this hour
with stocks bouncing back and bond
yields near historic highs. David Kelly
of JP Morgan Asset Management writing
it's a positive environment for US fixed
income. International equities and some
alternatives a little more difficult for
US stocks after three blockbuster years.
David joins us now for more. David,
welcome to the show.
>> Glad to be here. Let's start with the
bond market call. Is it getting more
interesting for you then? tens 30s this
back up in yields.
>> Yes. Uh but I I wouldn't I wouldn't
overplay this. I think the the straight
form moves issue is going on longer than
it should because I think people have
maybe in the administration have been
wrongfooted by the fact that gasoline
prices haven't gone up that much. I mean
I know we're at 455 this morning but
it's still not as high as it was in
2022. I don't think they realize that
the reason for that is because we came
into this year with bulging inventories
and that gave us a few months to work
down those inventories. But now every
week from here on out that the straight
stays closed, that inventory situation
is going to get worse and worse and
worse. And that's eventually they're
going to cry uncle. And I think that you
know I think when we look at markets
it's important not to look at where we
are today but realize the administration
will have no choice but to come to a
deal with Iran by which oil flows from
Iran and other Gulf states out of the
straight of Hormuz. There is no other
solution to this. Now you know we need
to come obviously we need to do
something about the nuclear program. Um,
you know, we tried to do that before,
but but ultimately that's where we're
headed.
>> So, you think this administration blinks
first, not the regime?
>> Yes. Because it's because the reg the
the Iranians know that they have got an
asymmetric threat. It's imp they can
with very little effort stop oil coming
out of the Gulf and and they know that
every week that gasoline prices go goes
up, it's more pressure in the US
administration, more pressure in the
global economy. So they'll have to and
the deal is I mean the Iranians don't
have all the cards but the deal is we're
going to separate the straight of
hormones issue from the nuclear issue.
We're going to get back to something
like the to be honest something like the
the the you know the uh agreement that
we had uh
>> the JCPOA.
>> Yeah, exactly. We'll go back to go back
to the go back to Yeah, of course you'll
of course I'm going to say it's better,
but but ultimately it's it's how do you
how do you control their their nuclear
program? What do you have to do to get
them to to back off? But that has to be
separated from straightforward moves
because the Iranians that that's going
to be their bottom line and eventually
the administration will blink.
>> As an investor, then do you really care
what the deal looks like? Do you just
assume the energy story is going to be
flowing by the end of the summer and
just look past it?
>> I think I mean you've you've there
plenty of risks out here, but that
should be your base case. And that's
that's right. And that's why I'm not too
freaked out about the increase in
long-term rates. I'm not that freaked
out about seeing higher energy or
long-term inflation priced into tips
because I just think a lot of this is a
slight overreaction to clearly a dire
situation in in the Gulf right now, but
one that really it's only going to end
one way.
>> So David, just take that a step further
in markets at the moment and the way
things have been priced in markets where
we're pricing more hawkish policy
responses, places like Europe, you
taking advantage of maybe what you
believe is a dislocation.
>> Um, possibly. I mean, I think that I
think the Europeans and the British and
the ECB have been sensible so far in not
reacting to what is essentially an oil
supply shock in in uh raising rates. I
hope they they are sensible enough to
keep keep with that, but may maybe not.
They are, you know, by by nature more
hawkish than the Federal Reserve. What I
don't believe is I do not believe this
Federal Reserve is going to raise rates.
I think it's kind of interesting the new
Fed chair, he's going to have his work
cut out just to stop the rest of the
committee trying to push for for higher
rates of any rate cut is off the cards.
But um but I think I think the Europeans
probably are are more likely to be
hawkish for longer than the US and that
does ultimately mean I think the gap
between US rates and and international
rates closes and the dollar comes down
although most of that may not occur till
2027.
>> I know there's a mandate issue here.
There's a dual mandate in the states. as
a single mandate in European central
banks. But it's kind of odd we're
talking about a more hawkish policy
response in Europe where the profile for
growth is so much worse relative to the
US
>> because they because they see the
potential for inflation getting embedded
through the labor market and that is
just what will not happen here. I mean
we if you look at the wage growth that
we saw in that April employment report
where it was up a little bit from March
but it is close to the lowest level
we've seen in 5 years despite this
really tight labor market. The truth is
American workers are so dispirited they
won't ask for a wage increase and if you
don't ask for a wage increase you cannot
get wage price wage price spirals going
it just won't last
>> I often asked you about this is there a
union difference as well is that factor
important
>> absolutely I mean part of it is because
less than 6% of the private sector in
the United States is in a union um and
obviously it's much higher than that in
Europe and and in the UK but there are
also institutional things I mean in a
lot of Europe there are um you know cost
of living adjustments automatically
priced in to wage agreements because of
increases in inflation and that doesn't
happen in the United States either. So
there, you know, I think there's some
argument that yeah, wage growth might be
a little stickier in Europe, but Europe
does not need to collapse demand. I
mean, they demand is weak enough as in
Europe and the UK that they've got
plenty of other problems to worry about.
>> David, where does this leave the Fed
then? You don't think they're hiking in
this environment?
>> No, I think I think I think they're
going to work on their golf game for the
rest of the year. [laughter]
I mean it's they they they they I mean
well what they're not going to do is
they're not going to cut in in June and
the only question is you know I used to
think the only question is is it going
to be 120 or 111 will be fascinating
because there has not been a single
instance in his in all the history of
the Federal Reserve of the Fed chair
voting against the majority of the FOMC
and I don't think it's going to happen
now. So I think it's probably going to
be 12-0. The other question is is there
any Fed particularly regional bank
president who might say you know what we
should hike. I'm going to descent in
favor of a hike. At some stage in the
next few months, you might see that. But
overall, the majority in the FOMC is
going to keep their heads down, try to
get through 2020 uh six, see how the
situation of the Gulf finally resolves
itself and then see what the trajectory
of the economy, inflation is at that
point.
>> Has the risk increased though for a Fed
chair to descent?
>> Uh it has because you know, we'll have
to see how Kevin Worsh approaches this
because he he clearly gave the president
the impression that he might be open to
cutting rates. I don't actually think he
is. Um, but he gave him that impression.
And so the question is how does he now
square this? But my guess is, you know,
he's he's a smart guy. His job now, the
job of the Fed chair is to try and find
a consensus in the committee. It was
interesting Jay. Powell talked about
that a little bit in his last press
conference. That's really the job of the
Fed chair. Well, you're not going to
form a consensus or or build that
consensus over the years if you start
out by dissenting from all of your
colleagues on a rate cut.
>> We've redefined doubishness. It's just
getting this Fed to do nothing through
the summer. Right.
>> That's the big go now.
>> And and I think one thing that Kevin
Worsh has on his side is that the
environment has changed from when he was
auditioning and interviewing and in
front of the Senate hearing. Now there
is a higher inflation picture. Gas
prices are higher and seemingly the
president does understand that based off
these two interviews this year's not a
60 anymore. It's got triple digits and
that's a massive change. Let's finish by
talking about equities. Massive bounce
from the end of March. Huge rally in the
semis. Nvidia after the close a little
bit later. Is your attention elsewhere
beyond the US?
>> Uh well, I mean it is interesting the
gap between the rest of the world is
still beating the US in in equities this
year, but it's only down to about 200
basis points. So, it's it's by less. I I
still want to overweight the rest of the
world. Um I I do think the rest of the
world's cheaper than the US, but there's
still this institutional bias in favor
of the US equity market going going
higher. things like the the movement,
you know, money pouring into 401ks,
stock buybacks, um the difficulty
getting money out because of capital
gains. All this gives a natural upward
bias to the US equity market which is
not present elsewhere. So I wouldn't bet
against this US market either in that
bias. I'm seeing some headwinds. I'm
thinking about supply from some major
IPOs. I'm thinking about less buybacks
at some of the hyperscalers because
they're investing so much money into
their businesses
>> a little bit. But it's uh but I you know
then it's at some stage over the next
few weeks if I'm right and the
administration blinks and there's some
agreement you know that's there's
another reason to to pop the champagne
courts.
>> Culture is so different. You travel the
country and you know what it's like in
Europe. In Europe there's a bias to
worry.
>> In America there's a bias to invest and
to buy.
>> Absolutely.
>> You just can't change a culture.
>> And I you know I spent you know the
first 20 years of my life in in in
Europe and and Europeans look at the
glass and it's half empty and Americans
look at the glass and it's 3/4 full
>> and not much has changed.
>> No. from an investing perspective.
Anyway, David, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Good to be here.
>> David Kelly there of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Equity futures right now in
the S&P firm up by a third of 1% on the
S&P 500 with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Let's get to
your Bloomberg brief [music] with Vonyie
Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. A busy morning of
retail earnings target rising in the
pre-market after it posted its best
sales results in four years. TJX also
higher on stronger than expected
guidance. Lows facing pressure though
after failing to raise its outlook
citing housing market challenges.
Live golf starting to lay the groundwork
for a potential US bankruptcy filing.
Sourc is telling us here at Bloomberg
the league is currently looking for
money after its main backer, the Saudi
[music] public investment fund pulled
its funding.
Global chip supply may be at risk. Talks
between Samsung and its largest labor
union collapsing ahead of a planned
strike at the world's biggest memory
chipmaker. Workers are set to proceed
with the stoppage tomorrow. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the Morning Horse.
Plus, we'll catch up with Megan Welch of
Brown Gibbons Lang and Company on the
new era for investing [music] in
defense. That conversation just around
the corner live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Think about it. the jobs we have today.
If you'd ask [music] our grandparents,
they couldn't have imagined, you know,
that you would have these type of jobs
that we have today. If you have an
expansion of the production frontier,
[music] it's hard to think that that's a
negative thing. The underlying message
is you increase the pie and that in
principle is a good thing for humans in
general. [music] That was Christine
Keller of Barclays joining the program a
little bit earlier on this morning.
Given the backlash we've seen to AI, the
booze over the weekend to commencement
[music] speeches at graduation
ceremonies, it's quite something and the
very clumsy communication from [music]
one particular bank in focus over in the
UK in the last couple of days. Equity
futures right now, the S&P 500 firmer by
0.4%. We're bouncing back from a 3-day
losing streak on [music] the S&P. The
longest daily stretch going back to the
end of March on the NASDAQ up by 0.7
going [music] into the heavyweight
earnings report after the close. Nvidia
just around the corner. In the bond
market, some better news. Twos, 10, and
30s if you're on this side of the trade.
Of course, yields are down by three
basis points on 10, 4, 63, 53. 30s, the
highest close since ' 07. Multi-deade
highs on yields at the long end of the
curve, not just states side, worldwide.
5:15 this morning.
>> Interesting what David Kelly said. It
reminds me kind of what uh Steve O told
us yesterday. If it's so bad, it won't
happen. Meaning the US is going to have
to blank and potentially make sure
[music] that they do something at the
negotiating table, some sort of
concession just to get the oil flowing
again. That means end the blockade and
getting to some sort of agreement to get
the straight open.
>> Well, let's get you an update on what's
happening with crude as well. Brent and
WTI. Bit of a pullback today on Brent
crude. Crude down by some 2% throughout
most of this morning. 2.6% lower now at
108.40. I've repeated [music] this
throughout this morning. The takeaway
from all of our conversations, this
can't continue and we're running out of
options to maintain [music] the
so-called status quo.
>> Well, that's what's really challenging
and a lot of our guests continue to
point to this and David was great on it.
This glut [music] that we had going into
this crisis. Now, guess what? All those
reserves are being depleted. Stock piles
are being drawn down [music] and this is
where it can get the next few weeks and
months incredibly challenging especially
for Asia Pacific and Europe.
>> Rank crude at 108. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Piper Sandler cutting
its price target on Home Depot and
keeping an overweight rating, saying
there's pent up demand in the home
improvement space. Your second call from
Stifel raising its price target on Crowd
Strike to 660, saying the company's
partners are bullish on growth
expectations for the fiscal year. And
finally, Wells Fargo trimming its price
target [music] on Meta to 765. The
analyst still expecting improving cloud
revenues and rising backlogs. The stock
is up this morning by quarter of 1%.
Let's talk about the situation in the
Middle East. The US threatening to
resume strikes on Iran if a deal to end
the war isn't reached in the coming
days. Iran warning today it would
retaliate beyond the Middle East if the
US or Israel restarts attacks. Joining
us now for the latest on the ground is
Becca Wasa of Bloomberg Economics.
Becca, welcome to the program. I often
ask this question, what phase are we in?
What phase do you think we're in right
now? And how sustainable do you think it
is?
Well, right now the phase that we are in
with the Iran war is a phase of
purgatory. We're neither here nor there.
We're not in open conflict, but there's
also no peace either. And this phase is
largely focusing on the straight of
Hormuz at the moment where you've seen
President Trump trying to take various
actions, whether that is project
freedom, the blockade, trying to break
the log jam in the straight and have it
reopen. But right now, I think, you
know, we are in sort of a nacho phase
where there's not a chance Hormuz opens,
which means there's either going to need
to be some type of negotiated
settlement, uh, which means that
President Trump is probably going to
need to accept some concessions or
resume strikes, and neither of those are
very good options.
>> Becca Amarie was talking about the
administration just looking for barrels
here, there, and everywhere. Sanction
waiverss here, sanctioned waiverss
there. It does raise the question just
how sustainable the current status quo
actually is before we run out of these
reserves. And these reserves have been
aggressively drawn down since the end of
February, the start of March. Becca, how
sustainable do you think things are?
>> I don't think they're very sustainable.
And that's just on the economic
dimension. If you look at the military
dimension, you have had US forces in the
Middle East deployed for several months,
right? there was a strong buildup prior
to the uh start of hostilities over
three months ago. So there's also a US
readiness problem from the military
standpoint in addition to the global
economic squeeze that we are feeling
because of the situation in the strait
and I don't think that's going to change
anytime soon in part because Iran knows
that it has leverage now and it is going
to try and exert that control wherever
possible even if there is a gradual
easing in the straight of Hormuz they're
still going to saber rattle on occasion
to remind the United States and the
global economy
uh that they do have that leverage.
>> Becca, appreciate your time. Thanks for
joining us. Becca was there of Bloomberg
Economics. We've had this question being
asked a few times on this program. What
do we hit first? Tank bottoms in the
West or tank tops in Iran. The blockade
continues.
>> Blockade continues and I think the
Iranians are actually used to this and
can find ways to squirrel away every any
barrel of oil. What is interesting
though is the structural shift that
might happen for this. Like Becca was
just talking about, the Iranians know
they have this leverage. Do you think
they're just going to give go away with
the toll now and not actually use it? Of
course not.
>> That's the latest on the Middle East.
Let's build on this and talk about the
defense sector. Megan Welch of Brown
Gibbons Langan Company writing, "The
next phase of defense investing is less
about the weapon itself and more about
the systems that keep forces prepared
and operational every single day." Megan
joins us here in New York. Megan, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Let's take that quote and just build on
it a little bit more. What do you mean
by that particular quote? Yeah, I mean I
think so the defense industry has become
a real area of investment for both the
public markets and the private markets.
The the critical funding tailwinds
behind it. The increased defense
spending across the board has really
attracted investors. And it's less about
like the F-35 or some of these large
platforms. It's more about all the
sustainment that goes around it. So all
of these systems, the support services,
etc. are areas where investors are
seeing opportunities to be able to get
access to the defense market without any
of the risk associated with, you know,
programmatic delays or cost overruns.
>> When I often think of this particular
sector, I think of very, very high
barriers to entry. Do you have to bear
that in mind when you think about some
of these companies in private markets?
>> I mean, it just depends where in the
sector you're looking to invest, but but
not really. I mean there are ways to
play defense and get access to this
market without having to um you know go
through multi-year uh training or
multi-year um investments in testing. So
again the services the logistics are
part of the on&m budget in the defense
industry in in the US and that's an area
that's pretty insulated from any kind of
continuing resolution or defense
budgetary um disputes between the
politics.
>> What about things like project maven at
the DoD? Has that changed potentially
what companies are going to be working
with the defense department that aren't
traditional or normal that we think of?
>> Yeah, absolutely. The defense
procurement has been broken for decades.
That is very well known uh both in the
defense industry, but also in Silicon
Valley, the valley of death. There's
been a real push in this administration.
You're laughing. I'm sure you've heard
it a hundred times, but there's a real
push in this administration to change
that up. It is a very large ship to turn
with a very small rudder. uh you know to
to Trump and Hexath's credit they're
doing a good job trying to do things
like the gauntlet program or project
Maven but um trying to get more dual use
technologies and commercial use
technologies into defense to accelerate
where we are from a war fighter
readiness perspective. It's just really
hard because fundamentally the defense
market itself is structured around
annual funding budgets that don't really
have multi-year procurement signals and
it's hard for commercial industry guys
to be able to understand what does that
look like in 3 to 5 years and how can I
actually forecast my sales and forecast
my supply chain to meet that. One of the
big stories at the DoD right now and
actually what we've heard from the likes
of executives at Palanteers is what's
going on in Iran will be the first
really AIdriven war. When I think of
that, I think of Anthropic because
obviously they're using Anthropic on
their systems. At the same time, the
Pentagon is saying it's a supply chain
risk. How does that impact potentially
what companies work with anthropic and
the DoD when you think about investing?
>> So AI is definitely playing a huge role
not only in things like Palunteer, but
also in robotics and unmanned systems.
It's going to be a force multiplier and
a real force structure going forward. Um
TBD kind of how it plays out in terms of
how anthropic works with the DoD
directly. There's a lot of uh risk
associated with that from a from a you
know cyber security basis and from a
technology risk basis but we're seeing
more and more AI enabled capabilities
that allow us to increase our force
structure and our presence that we
wouldn't be able to do just
fundamentally with boots on the ground.
>> What about the political risks of
regulatory concerns because a lot of
people don't like the idea of autonomous
weapons.
>> Yeah. I mean so autonomous weapons are
um they're they're very much going to be
the future of the warfare, right? So we
saw what happened in Ukraine. um when we
look at where we're competing against
Russia and China, we just don't have the
bodies, the boots on the ground to be
able to match them one for one. And it
also takes a lot of risk out of loss of
life, right? So you think about having
the unmanned wingmen, right? So not
having as many air uh airmen in the in
the air and having the risk of loss of
life. There's a lot of benefits to
unmanned systems, not just out of force
multiplier, but to be able to take some
of the risk away from loss of life.
>> Do you see the investment really only
and what's potentially going on in this
space, the advancements in the United
States or elsewhere? because I see a lot
of work that Ukraine has done when it
comes to drone warfare.
>> Yeah, Ukraine has been fantastic. It's
been a great case study for the future
of warfare. I jokingly say it's kind of
like what the machine gun did for World
War I. It's been a total change in how
we go to war going forward. We are never
going to go to war like we did in Iraq
and Afghanistan. Um but yes, absolutely.
And internationally, there's been more
defense spending and defense investments
that we've ever seen in the last 20
years, really since the peace dividend
of the '90s. Um, and Ukraine's been the
leading, you know, case study of that,
of how to be able to use defense
technology to be able to have it in a
modern warfare conflict.
>> It's driven massive change in Europe and
attitudes to investing in defense.
>> Absolutely. Investing in defense in
Europe, but also in terms of the
technology. Ukrainians are the ones that
know how to strike down these shiadi
drones. We're sometimes using Patriot
missiles to do it. They have their own
anti- drone systems that are much
cheaper.
>> And they've now gone to the Ukrainians
to learn some of those lessons. Megan,
appreciate your time this morning. Thank
you, Megan Walsh. there of Brown Given
Lang and Company on the future of
defense investment. If you're just
joining us, welcome. Later on, of
course, Fed minutes and we'll get those
earnings you're all waiting for from
Nvidia in the here and now as we count
you down to the opening bow about 1 hour
and 5 minutes away. Equity futures near
session highs by 0.4% higher by 3/4 of
1% on the NASDAQ 100. Up next, we'll
catch up with Kathy Boschantic of
Nationwide with bond yields near
historic highs and the Fed firmly on the
sidelines. multi-deade [music] highs on
30-year yields this week. In the last
month, we've seen that in the UK,
Germany, and all-time highs of the long
end of the Japanese curve. More on that
in just a moment. From New York [music]
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities
doing better than okay, bouncing back by
0.5% [music] the last three days, down
about 2%. So this is your bounce just
eating into those losses so far this
morning on the NASDAQ up by 0.8%. Had
some earnings earlier on this morning.
Target heard from Lowe's TJX retailers
going into Walmart tomorrow. Target up
by 2% in the pre-market, [music] adding
to a gain of about 30% on the year so
far. The numbers from them this morning,
the best sales growth in four years. The
turnaround looks to be going quite well.
Some evidence of it this morning.
>> Looks to be going quite well. We heard
from our own analysts about what Target
is doing right, which is leaning into
why people [music] like to go there,
things that people like to buy when they
are at Target. and also just upgrading
some of the technology around it. I was
talking about earlier, I used this app
over the weekend before before I went to
China. I had some stuff [music] to go
by. Told me exactly what shelf and row
and aisle all of the goods were going to
be at. Made the whole thing much a lot
more easier.
>> Super helpful. That's a story at the
single name level. Let's turn to the
bond market. Twos, tens, and 30s. Lots
of attention at the very long end of the
yield curve on the 30-year yield given
the close yesterday, the highest we've
seen in multiple decades going back to
2007. Yields this morning down by a
basis point 51650
on 30 so far this morning. Later on this
afternoon, the attention will switch to
the front end of the curve when [music]
we get these Federal Reserve minutes
following that hawkish descent to the
language in the statement at the Fed's
last meeting. From there, there's just
been a chorus of push back to the easing
bias from several Fed officials. So,
look out for that in the minutes a
little [music] bit later this afternoon.
Two is around 4.1% ahead of Kevin
Walsh's signing in ceremony a little bit
later this week.
>> I think everyone's excited for that
signing in ceremony cuz they want to see
how the president talks about Kevin
Walsh in the signing in ceremony because
it's going to be at the White House.
It's [music] not going to be at the
Federal Reserve. It is going to be the
White House for the first time I believe
since 1987 it was with Alan Greenspan
[music] and basically the president this
week in a number of interviews two of
them notably in Fortune and Washington
Examiner pushed back on this idea that
he wants to see Kevin [music] Walsh come
in and cut interest rates. Said he's
going to do the right thing also gave a
nod to what's going on in the war in the
inflation picture and said maybe he'll
have to look at the figures [music]
after the conflict is over.
>> The swearing in ceremony later on this
week. Let's talk about the Treasury
market. Big move in yields still holding
[music] near multi-deade highs due to
inflation fears and some fiscal concerns
building worldwide. Ara Jersey of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Ira, welcome to the program. I
want to spend some time on your survey
on Kevin Walsh a little bit later, but
let's just start with the moves we've
seen at the long end of the curve, not
just in the US, in the UK, in Germany,
in Japan. What do you think the dominant
driver IRA is right now?
>> Yeah, it is what you just mentioned,
John. that fiscal issues uh in a lot of
the developed markets, right? And the US
is part of this, but we're not actually
the worst actor when it comes to this.
It's really Japan and the UK that have
been um you know, some of the bigger
drivers and they've been pushing. So,
it's a tail wagging the dog type of uh
type of moves where you see these 10 15
basis point moves in Japan or the UK and
then you'll see five to seven basis
points in the US and and uh and parts of
Europe. So, it so it is a global bond
selloff. This isn't unique just to the
US, but obviously you take note when, as
you said, we had a closing uh high on
the 30-year yield yesterday for the
first uh the worst in almost 20 years.
>> When you and I first were first talking
about these issues more than a decade
ago, we were talking about the anchors
of JGB's of the bond market. Those
anchors have gone. What is the anchor of
the global bond market now?
>> Yeah. So, so for the long end of the
yield curve, I think it has to be the
end user and the real investor. And a
lot of those there still is a lot of
demand for longduration assets globally
because we do have a uh a very large
what we call liabilitydriven investors.
So these are pension funds, insurance
companies, life insurance companies in
particular at at that long end of the
curve and they tend to like yields uh in
US dollars at around 5% 5 and a quarter
percent. So the I think one of the big
questions here is do we hold these types
of levels? do they come in and continue
to buy and add duration in treasuries
instead of doing what they have been
doing which is buying corporates at
super tight spreads uh but at yields
that you know are 6ish% or or maybe even
a little less and and so I think we're
at the levels where um where risk
management says okay look yes the the US
has a pretty bad fiscal situation but
realistically they're probably not going
to default. It's more of an issue of do
they have to inflate their way out of um
out of this this debt I don't want to
call it a crisis but this massive amount
of debt that the US holds. Um and it's a
it's an area where where pension funds
and uh and insurance companies can say
okay look we'll buy at 5 and a quarter%
now or or soon. Um and uh and and that
is has to be what arrests the market. I
don't think uh the f the monetary
authorities like the Fed are going to
come in and be buying the long end uh
just because we've sold off you know 40
basis points in the middle of a war.
>> Ira, your point on credit is important.
Now I hear this all the time. I'll say
spreads are really tight. What do you
like about corporates? They'll say allin
yield. But if allin yield is high and
credit spreads are tight then the bigger
bulk of that component of that spread
that interest rate is the risk-free
rate. And if I can get a risk-free, why
wouldn't I just buy the risk-free rate
if it makes up a bigger component of the
overall all-in yield? What's the
appetite for credit versus risk-free?
Unless you think there is a risk there.
And I maybe that's the change that
people consider the sovereign to be
increasingly more riskier than maybe
some of these corporate credits at the
moment.
>> Yeah, I I don't think that that's really
the case. It's like when I've talked to
a lot of investors um it's it's it is
you know how do we how do we take the
risk and and do we um you know they're
not really worried about the US um in
particular the US defaulting right it's
more is will the US have to uh run uh
higher inflation and if they run higher
inflation does that mean that we're
going to have systemically higher bond
yields um so that that's the bigger
concern for a lot of investors not you
know the US not paying its its bills. Um
so but but but to your point I think
that that's the point I was trying to
make is as a percentage of all in yield.
Um Treasury yields now are much uh much
higher and so that makes it more
attractive to these liability driven
investors.
>> We're talking about the longer end of
the curve. We started by talking about
what the move we've seen in 30. Let's
tighten things up and talk about the
front end of the curve and the policy
rate. The survey you and the team did at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Kevin Walsh is a
known entity, but how he'll interpret
this particular role at this particular
time is largely unknown. Ira, what are
investors saying in your survey about
what they're expecting from Kevin Walsh
relative to what we saw from Chairman
Powell?
>> Yes. So, a a pretty big majority of
investors, about twothirds of them, uh,
have suggested that Kevin Worsh is going
to be more dovish than Jay Powell. Now,
that's not obvious to to some people,
including us, because in the past, he
has been a little bit more I don't want
to say middle of the road, but he's been
willing to make some hawkish comments uh
when the rest of the committee has been
been dovish. And um and and just the
opposite might be true as well, where he
might say, "Okay, look, we need to cut
interest rates because of, you know,
reasons that I espouse um not
necessarily the president." Um even
though the rest of the committee is
somewhat more reluctant to to cut
interest rates. Um I I think the big
takeaway from the uh uh which I think
was interesting from that survey was
that most respondents think uh like up
to 84% I think the the number was if I
if I recall well that they could change
the policy framework during his term. So
that would say you know maybe we go away
from the the PCE being the target maybe
we go away from the Fed funds rate being
the monetary target and we use sofur or
something else. And it could be that
they get rid of or change the summary of
economic projections pretty well in
terms of how they express forward
guidance. So all of those things are are
something that that is probably somewhat
more realistic than you know the Federal
Reserve cutting interest rates in June
or July uh amid inflation with uh when
Kevin Worsh finally takes office.
>> There's a lot on the table that's for
sure for the incoming Fed chair. Ira,
it's good to see you. Thank you sir. Ira
Jersey there of Bloomberg on a number of
issues across the yield curve and in the
fiscal income space at the moment. Kathy
Bosjanthic of Nationwide writing rising
inflation should embolden more of the
FMC to formally adopt a neutral bias to
the next policy meeting. While new Fed
chair Kevin Walsh is likely to prefer
lower rates over time, we expect an
extended pause. Kathy joins us now for
more. Kathy, welcome back to the
program. Just describe that June
meeting, what you think it's going to
look like alongside the SCP because
they've got to put out some forecasts as
well.
>> Yeah, good morning, John. Uh it
certainly will be an interesting one, no
doubt. Um but I think what you're seeing
is the momentum as you mentioned is more
Fed officials are saying you know why do
we have an easing bias in the face of of
high inflation which you know we think
inflation CPI is bound to go over 4% uh
in in April. So really hard to hold on
to that. Moving to a neutral bias or
risk you know neutral assessment makes a
lot more sense. So I think that should
be rather easy. um will be uh
interesting to see the updated SEP
forecast because in in the ones in March
um there were really no updates. In
fact, if anything, if I remember
correctly, they pushed up GDP growth a
bit, which is surprising. So, how do
they recalibrate growth? Where do they
see the risk there? How high do you know
do they see inflation by year end? Uh
and not just headline, I think core. I
think what the bond market's really
trying to sus out right now, is this
just energy and is it just headline and
somewhat short-term or is it possibly
bleeding over to core inflation?
>> Kathy, when it comes to potentially a
dovish Kevin Walsh, is it dovish that
the market expects rate cuts or just
that he convinces the committee to keep
the easing bias?
>> So, I I think it it's tough right now. I
think he's inclined uh to to argue for
for lower rates overtime. I I think he
would really even find it difficult now
to come in and and argue that the Fed
should, you know, in the near term be
cutting rates, maybe possibly there's an
opening by year end. And and I say that
if uh we really see some resolution in
the Middle East and gasoline prices come
down and all all the other energy prices
and particularly if core inflation is
somewhere around 2 and a.5% that could
give a little opening. He does prefer
these trimmed mean inflation measures
depending what they look like from the
Dallas Fed or Cleveland. Maybe that
gives some opening to to cut rates, but
I think in the near term even he will be
kind of um in more of a neutral stance
at this point
>> like we saw from the Federal Reserve
when it comes to the potential impact on
inflation from tariffs. When it comes to
the energy hit, shouldn't they be
looking through this?
>> I I think yes. And I think largely they
do. Although there's there's risk that
um as I said it it it spills over to
core and and other you know non-energy
measures and also inflation expectations
right that is kind of the golden uh
goalpost in a sense for the Fed. Um if
inflation expectations become dislodged
they worry that inflation not just this
year but even next year could run higher
right it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy. Um, but what we know is with
break even rates for inflation in the
bond market, they're very correlated
with oil prices and energy. So, our view
is if you get some relief there,
probably inflation expectations and even
long-term bond yields uh come off the
the highs that we've seen here.
>> We're seeing some of that this morning
at least so far. Kathy, thank you. Be
Kathy Boschantic there of Nationwide on
this bond market selloff in the last few
weeks. This morning yields lower by two
basis points in the long 516 517 on 30s.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Samsung and Google
are unveiling new smart glasses with a
launch planned later this year. Built
with Warby Parker and Gentle Monster.
The devices let users interact with
Gemini by voice. Features include
directions, calls, translations, and
camera based queries.
Goldman Sachs taking the lead role in
the SpaceX IPO. Sourc is telling us here
at Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley is also
listed as a lead bank. Elon Musk's
company is looking to raise as much as
$75 billion and is seeking a valuation
of more than $2 trillion.
The Northeast heat wave continuing for a
third straight day. Heat alerts in
places in Boston, New York City, and
Philadelphia. Over a dozen daily record
highs were set yesterday. A cold front
though coming in by tomorrow will take
temperatures down by 30 to 40°. And that
is your Bloomberg [music] brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you for the update. Not
that last one, but thank you in general
terms. Up next on the program, setting
him up for the day ahead. Plus, we'll
touch base with Ben Rice of Medius
Research with Nvidia earnings on deck.
We'll also speak to Ed Ledllo who spoke
to Jensen recently, what he's [music]
expecting from these earnings after the
closing bell.
Jensen typically
um manages expectations extremely well,
right? So I do think there is room for
for upside here. What you need to do is
to continue to show um things being
steady in nature. You need to
potentially surprise maybe in certain
aspects. I don't necessarily think you
need to significantly beat street
expectations.
>> That was Angela Zenino of CF going into
that big earnings report after the
closing bell. Nvidia just around the
corner as we count you down to that
opening bell. That's not the only thing
we're watching today. Here's your
trading diary at 11:00 a.m. Eastern
time. The president [music] speaking at
the US Coast Guard Academy. Look out for
that. Another commencement address. I
imagine AI might not get a mention in
this one.
>> Well, I'm hoping that his team tells him
the second you AI be careful how you
talk about it cuz Mr. President, you
might get booed.
>> Yeah. Teamp Federal Reserve minutes.
Look out for that after the market
close. We'll get those earnings from
Nvidia. Looking ahead to tomorrow,
earnings from Walmart. Another round of
jobless claims and PMI data to look
forward to as well on Friday. Kevin
Walsh swearing in as Fed share. The one
to watch heading into the [music]
weekend. Equity futures right now. The
S&P 500 firmer by 0.4% a bounce on the
Nasdaq as well on the NASDAQ 100 higher
by 3/4 of 1% as we await Nvidia earnings
for a read on the outlook for AI.
Bloom's Ed Lllo joins us for more. Ed,
welcome to the program buddy. You caught
up with Jensen recently. What was the
read through on the business at the
moment?
>> Yeah, the same that it has been for some
time which is that the demand is vastly
outpacing the industry's ability to
supply, not just Nvidia's. And there is
a real beat and raise expectation with
an Nvidia print like no one's going to
really focus on the quarter gone. They
will want some guidance on the future.
So topline growth of 80% EPS growth 85%
you know is impressive if they're able
to deliver in that environment you know
some upside to that. But the thing that
still needs to be reconciled for so many
people is China. It needs to be
reconciled, John, because over a period
of January through present day, the
commentary from Jensen Wong and Nvidia
and the commentary from the president
and the outcome of that trip to China
has been inconsistent.
>> Does it really matter though, Ed, given
that we know it doesn't make up any kind
of big proportion of the underlying
earnings from that company? Does it
matter?
>> Such a great question. It's it's
psychological for for lots of people,
right? The base case assumption right
now is there is zero revenues coming
from China. And you know Nvidia's talked
about the idea that they see it as a $50
billion per year opportunity. You know
there was a time where China not just
for consumer electronics smartphone PC
data center as well. It was the
absolutely most critical end market. The
capital expenditure story of of the
hyperscalers in the United States and in
the western world has really changed
that beyond the the restriction of being
able to do business with China. But
still people want to know and you know
the thing is is that Jensen Wong
positions himself in the center of that
story. Um and what needs to be
reconciled is in March he said they were
ramping up supply chain so they could
sell to China. And of course you saw
what the president said on Air Force One
last Friday I believe. It's it's
inconsistent. So I'm just saying on the
on the sell side at least their
checklist has that in their questions.
>> It's a point well made. I'd appreciate
it. Looking forward to the program. Ed
Ladello coming up a little bit later on
Bloom Bay Technology alongside Caroline
Hyde in video. This morning, firmer buy
close to 2%. Ben Riceis of Medius
Research with a buy rating on Nvidia and
a 380 price target writing, "We expect a
strong report with a meaningful beat and
a raise." Ben joins us now for more.
Ben, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Great to see you.
>> Thank you for being here. Sir, you've
been dreaming of Jensen according to
your note apparently. So, tell us more.
What was in the dream? Well, uh, I
probably had, uh, PTSD from the stock
[laughter] underperforming for most of
the year, at least the SMH, and, you
know, by tens of points, um,
underperformance of the SMH this year.
And I feel like there's a catch-up uh,
ready to be done here with Nvidia
because their earnings are accelerating.
And I do feel that the stock is priced
as if they're going to have a meaningful
deceleration. and I don't see it as
meaningful as the stock is discounting.
I think that it's trading probably under
20 times the real earnings power here by
quite a bit. So, um I think that they
need to re reassure investors they can
grow at least in line if not better than
capex at the hyperscalers and I think
they can do that. Why has it lacked? Why
have names like Intel and AMD had these
explosive moves? And Nvidia, which has
done well off the lows from March, I
think up by something like 30%, but just
nothing near the other parts of the
market. What's been going on?
>> Well, when you're this big uh at Nvidia
at 5 trillion plus, it's really hard to
move money around. I I kind of make a
joke. You have to if it was Europe,
you'd have to put, you know, France on
top of England, and it takes a little
while. And when you're smaller, uh, it
it under a trillion, let's say, it's
it's a lot easier to move capital
around. And there's also been these
acute shortages. So you it's sort of
like whack-a-ole and AI to the upside
where there's a certain shortage and
then you go after that and then another
shortage, you go after that and you go
after that and it's violent. So you
actually you Nvidia becomes a source of
cash to invest in these acute shortages
like semis like memory or pick your
other optical etc. So actually what
happens is Nvidia becomes a source of
cash and then it underperforms and then
a night like tonight might be a catalyst
for people to go, hey wait a second,
these guys actually have a pretty good
business model, kind of know what
they're doing and uh they're going to
grow pretty well. So maybe we should uh
put a little more money back into the
main horse that's driving this whole
train. But uh I think Nvidia is just
fine and uh I think it's natural to
decelerate but uh they still have uh
much higher growth prospects than the
stock is discounting and eventually that
works itself out.
>> Ed touched on it when it comes to the
Chinese market in your dream. Does
Beijing open up for Jensen?
>> No, it's it's a bonus. I I think that
the China thing is actually not a big
deal uh tonight. I think nobody's
expecting him to say he's going to sell
in China. Uh it would have been nice. It
would have been nice, but the street
doesn't want to put a great multiple on
China either because it's in, it's out.
You you don't know who the next
president's going to be. You don't know
uh one thing to the next with China. So,
I actually don't think it's that big a
deal. I don't think anybody's expecting
it. And it might come up tonight, but
it's not something that we're going to
put back in our model. It would be nice
to have it though. But I think the more
important thing is the capex trend with
the major hyperscalers and being able to
at least grow in line with that. This
year capex among the major uh clouds is
going to double. No one thought that
going in. And if it can stay at like a
40% kager and these guys grow in line
with that, these guys are going to do
really well.
>> You say it's nice to have down the road.
Will China be need to have must have?
>> It's potentially I mean it's it would be
nice if the American technology stack
ruled over there. I don't know how to
say it nicer, but uh you know I just
take it. sound like David Sax when he
was at the White House.
>> Uh, you know, David says a lot of things
that make sense in my opinion. The the
uh but it is it would be better if it
was an American technology stack I think
for the world. However, uh, you know, I
do sympathize with some of the concerns
that that folks have. But I think that
it's a race and you have to understand
that we have these hyperscalers here
that have tons of wallet and they have
more wallet actually than the Chinese
for now. And uh that's that's a plenty
uh to to really uh go uh expand this
market. And labor is the tan. Labor's
trillions. And I think that uh there's a
lot to go around and and and uh and
China will have their share and we'll
have ours. And I I think we're we're
still well ahead. But uh
>> but China has an entire government that
subsidizes them and pushes them
>> that we don't really have.
>> Yeah. Right now, actually, we put out a
piece today. The biggest risk in our
opinion is backlash here. Uh you know I
don't want to get into the political
merits but uh in terms of a stock where
you have to uh we we really uh in China
the the great thing that they have going
for them on their AI business is the
government's going to just go unabated.
And culturally from what I read and see
in talking to people that there's a
little bit more optimism about AI. Hey
let's embrace it and and try to make our
jobs better. that kind of thing and use
it for productivity and um we need to
promote that here if if stocks are going
to continue to work.
>> The message is just not good. What do
they need to change? We spent the
morning on this. The message coming from
some of these companies, what's the
right message?
>> The right message, you know, I still I I
uh I want to make sure I say the right
thing here. The you know, you never know
who know who's listening. The you know,
the right message probably is this
technology is not going to stop. So we
have to invest in it and you have to
embrace it. Uh there's never been a
better time to start a company. Never
been a better time to learn the
technology and become that person in
your office that can be the most
productive and uh that's what the
message needs to be and that there's
it's going to free up uh time to do
other jobs, other things to expand.
There's going to be a boom in leisure
and medicine and uh many things. But uh
I think I think that there needs to be
you know more AI optimism. And then with
the data centers, there's sometimes uh
misinformation. There's ability to
recycle water. There's an ability to put
uh power uh production behind the meter
using natural gas or some other fuel to
actually make it so consumers in the
local area don't feel a pinch and
actually could even get subsidized. So,
we need to do a better job um marketing
[music]
these messages and change the narrative
and not let it be a political touch
point that uh we blame because [music]
we need an excuse. It's become one,
that's for sure. Ben, it's good to see
you. Thank you, buddy. Thank you. Ben
Wright is there of Medius Research.
Coming up tomorrow, Peter CH of Academy
Securities, the BNY CFO, Derma McDonald,
and David Levitz of JP Morgan Asset
Management from New York City this
morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.